 By Chukwudi Nweje The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State has described the call of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the resignation of Gov Babajide Sanwo-Olu as “the wish of a frustrated opposition battling its permanent implosion.”
It said the governor is undaunted by the PDP’s agitation and will continue to discharge his responsibilities. “The Lagos State government, ably led by Mr Babajide Sanwo-olu remains undaunted and can not be distracted in delivering on its social contract with the people. The flag-off ceremony of the reconstruction of the Eleko to Epe T- junction road is an eloquent testimony that governance is not on recess in our state. The security of lives and property and all round development remain the priority of the Lagos state government. The call for resignation remains the wish of a frustrated opposition battling its permanent implosion”, the APC said.
The APC challenged the PDP to explain its role in the ＃EndSARS mayhem, and said that the falsehood spread by the PDP has led to wanton destruction. Lagos APC Spokesman, Seye Oladejo, said that Gov Sanwo-Olu remains a crisis manager, who has exhibited his skills through his visits to the various hospitals treating the injured and the motivation and incentives provided for the members of the Nigeria Police Force. “The PDP in Lagos state that suddenly came to life in the past week owes the innocent members of the public detailed explanation about its ignominious and condemnable role in the mayhem. The intermittent falsehood about governance in the state fed to the unsuspecting public fanned the ember of the unprecedented violence which has left in its wake sorrow, tears and blood. The daylight murder of police officers and the razing of several stations across the state has no doubt taken its toll on our security architecture. The state government is working assiduously to provide temporary accommodation to forestall the breakdown of law and order. We are persuaded by the firm assurance of the governor to revamp our losses in no time”, he said. The party also cautioned that the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry and Restitution set up by the government be allowed to conclude its work before people start drawing conclusion. “It is expedient to yield space to the fact finding panel that has already commenced work to deliver on its mandate. It is lawless and self-serving to pre-empt the panel’s findings. The fact that the wanton destruction of public properties, utilities and individual investment in Lagos has thrown the PDP camp in to unprecedented jubilation is loaded with meaning”, Oladejo said. 