Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),  yesterday,  said the rescue operation embarked upon by the United States to rescue one of her citizens held hostage in Nigeria is a confirmation that the federal government can neither secure the country nor arrest the wave of insecurity. PDP in a statement by Kola Ologbondiyan, described the US rescue operation as an international embarrassment and an indication of how low the Presidency has allegedly failed in the protection of lives and property in the country. The opposition party alleged that bandits and kidnappers from neighbouring countries now freely cross into Nigeria and use the country as detention camps. “It is indeed grossly disconcerting that under our Commander-in-Chief, a general, who had consistently promised to lead from the front, it took a foreign country to come on our soil to rescue their citizen, while hordes of our citizens are reportedly being held, tortured and killed in various kidnappers’ and insurgents’ dens in various parts of our nation. “Our party recalls that earlier in April, Nigeria was equally embarrassed by reports of how the Chadian President Idris Deby, personally led his troops to rout out insurgents and freed Nigerian territories and soldiers held captive by terrorists in northern part of Borno State, while our leaders recede into the safety and comfort of Aso Presidential Villa. “The fact that other countries with competent and determined leadership have successfully dislodged and vanquished bandits on our soil highlight the incompetence, lack of honesty and want of will power on the part of the Buhari administration to effectively secure our nation. “The exploits of these countries on our soil only go to show that the bandits, vandals, kidnappers, insurgents are not invincible but have been allowed to take hold of our nation due to the failures of the Buhari administration,” the PDP stated. It added that the alleged failure of the government to combat banditry, terrorism and other violent crimes has “dragged our nation down to rank as the third country with the highest level of terrorism, after Iran and Afghanistan, according to 2019 Global Terrorism Index rating by the Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP). “Our party believes that the latest experience will compel President Buhari to accede to widespread demand by Nigerians to rejig his security architecture as well as replace his service chiefs with more competent hands to effectively tackle insecurity challenge facing our country. “Nevertheless, our party commends and immensely values the courage and sacrifices of our gallant troops who are daily risking their lives in the front to safeguard our nation against the insurgents despite the challenges they face.” 