Sylvanus Viashima, Jalingo The North-East representative at the All Progressive Congress (APC) Caretaker Extraordinary convention planning committee Professor Tahir Mamman (SAN), on Thursday, urged the party faithful in Taraba State to close ranks and work together to ensure victory in subsequent elections in the State. Mamman made the call in Jalingo while addressing members at the party’s State Secretariat. He noted that there was a serious need for reconciliation of all party members as the house was big enough to accommodate all members and even welcome a lot more. Mamman said that ‘there should be justice and a fair playing ground for all, regardless of their background and class. We must work together if we really want to achieve the desired results. We are all critical stakeholders and must allow unity and party interest to prevail. You must begin to select leaders and your representatives based on their track records of good works and worthy characters rather than sentiments and biases. It is very important that we distinguish ourselves from the norm that has kept the party system in the country backwards for so long,’ Mamman said. He further urged the people to carry women along and ensure that they are fully represented in all the activities of the party and give them chances for elective positions so that they do not feel sidelined. Earlier, the State party Chairman, Mr Tukur El-Sudi, lamented that despite working hard for the success of the party, the APC in Taraba was poorly represented at the Federal levels and urged the Federal government to consider giving more positions to party members in the State. El-Sudi lamented that federal government empowerment schemes in the State were highjacked by the State Government, repackaged and shared to PDP members to look as though they were incentives provided by the State Government. He insisted that the APC has demonstrated steady progression in the State in the last two general elections and is positioned to take over power in the State, with adequate support of the government at the federal level. 