Rose Ejembi, Makurdi There was palpable fear in Ekile Community, Ado local government area of Benue State when the locals woke up last Friday morning to see flags bearing the insignia of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) hoisted in their community. It was gathered that although Ekile community is a district in Ado local government area of Benue State which serves as a host community to several Izza and Ezza people of Ebonyi State, the community is in Benue State. Daily Sun reportedly gathered that the flags were seen at strategic locations in the Community which borders another community in Ebonyi State. Sources said some members of the Ekile Community who saw the IPOB flags wasted no time in raising alarm and news quickly got to the Council Chairman of Ado local government area, Hon. James Oche. Confirming the incident, the council boss who spoke through the Supervisory Councilor on Education, Attah Edeh said he received distress calls from some prominent individuals in Ekile district informing him of the development. The chairman expressed shock over the development, stressing that there is no part or section of Ado land that belongs to Ebonyi and there is Biafra community in the local government area. He disclosed further that the local government had commenced immediate investigation to unravel those behind the heinous crime and assured that no part of Ado local government area would be ceded to IPOB. “Yes, it is true that some people suspected to be IPOB members went and hoisted Biafra flag at Ekile Community in my local government area. The action is unwarranted and condemnable. It is a mischievous act to stir crisis in our area but we will not give in to that. “We are yet to ascertain their mission and why they think such a thing should be done in Ado. Ado belongs to Benue State and Benue is one of the states in North Central Nigeria. We are not Southeast and we can never be. Therefore IPOB should keep their activities off Ado communities and Benue as a whole,” Oche stated. 