Joseph R Biden, the candidate of the Democratic Party in the United States presidential election has won the race to become the next president of the US, defeating Donald Trump following a cliff-hanger vote count after Tuesday’s election. The BBC projects that Mr Biden has won the key battleground of Pennsylvania, propelling him over the 270 electoral college vote threshold required to clinch the White House. The Trump campaign has indicated their candidate does not plan to concede. The result makes Mr Trump the first one-term president since the 1990s. The BBC’s projection of Mr Biden’s victory is based on the unofficial results from states that have already finished counting their votes, and the expected results from states like Wisconsin where the count is continuing. The election has seen the highest turnout since 1900. Mr Biden has won more than 73 million votes so far, the most ever for a US presidential candidate. Mr Trump has drawn almost 70 million, the second-highest tally in history. President Trump had falsely declared himself the winner of the election when vote counting was unfinished. He has since alleged irregularities in counting, but has not presented any evidence of election fraud. His campaign has filed a barrage of lawsuits in various states and earlier on Friday, as Mr Biden appeared on the cusp of victory, said: “This election is not over.” America, I’m honored that you have chosen me to lead our great country. The work ahead of us will be hard, but I promise you this: I will be a President for all Americans — whether you voted for me or not. I will keep the faith that you have placed in me.  In what looks like an acceptance speech, Biden on his verified twitter handle says “America, I’m honored that you have chosen me to lead our great country. “The work ahead of us will be hard, but I promise you this: I will be a President for all Americans — whether you voted for me or not. “I will keep the faith that you have placed in me.”  America, I’m honored that you have chosen me to lead our great country. The work ahead of us will be hard, but I promise you this: I will be a President for all Americans — whether you voted for me or not. I will keep the faith that you have placed in me. pic.twitter.com/moA9qhmjn8 — Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) November 7, 2020 