Uche Usim, Abuja  Management of Jaiz Bank Plc has secured the shareholders nod to offer over N5 billion shares via private placement. The targets to raise additional N3.3 billion from the offer to fund branch expansion, business optimization, upgrade of information technology infrastructure and enhancement of working capital requirements. The Managing Director of the Bank, Mr Hassan Usman, made the disclosure on Sunday in Abuja during an interface with finance journalists. According to him, the targeted additional fund would also help the company maintain a healthy liquidity status to undertake greater tasks. He said: “The N3.3 billion would be raised through a private placement of 5,076,923,077 ordinary shares of 50 kobo at 65 kobo per share. “The proposed placement was approved at an Extra-Ordinary General Meeting held on 28th of October 2020 at the Bank’s Head Office in Abuja under the Chairmanship of Dr. Umaru Mutallab. “It is an affirmation of the confidence the Board and shareholders have in the prospects of the bank despite the economic uncertainties occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic”. On the reported rancour among members of the board over the appointment of a new Managing Director, Usman said such rift was nonexistent. He explained: “There is no rift in the Board of the Bank other than legitimate exercise of divergent opinions on a matter in the ordinary course of the Directors’ duties. As a testimony to the absence of a rift, the Board and Shareholders of the bank. “The matter of succession for the current Managing Director was considered by the Board as the expiration of his contract approached. “Whereas some Directors of the Bank opined that a change of leadership was required to pursue some critical strategic goals, others believed otherwise, given the very impressive performance of the current Management. “The Board nonetheless resolved to appoint a new successor in person of Mr. Muhammad Shaheed Khan. This decision was however rescinded at a subsequent meeting of the Board. “The Board’s resolution to rescind its decision and consequently discontinue the appointment process was in line with the terms and conditions of the offer letter issued to Mr. Khan since the offer was subject to relevant regulatory approvals. “Incidentally, the approval obtained from the relevant regulator materially modified the intention of the Board as expressed in the conditional offer to Mr. Khan, necessitating the Board’s decision to discontinue the process of his appointment.” He assured the bank’s Customers, Shareholders, investing public and other stakeholders that the Board of the Bank remains committed to conducting its affairs within the stipulations of existing Corporate Governance Codes for banks and public companies in Nigeria”. He further revealed that the bank currently has 41 branches nationwide and has secured approval to do three more in 2021. Jaiz Bank Plc, Nigeria’s first and only full-scale ethical bank commenced operations on 6 January, 2012. The bank grew it balance sheet at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 35% over the last four years. 