Layi Olanrewaju, Ilorin The Kwara State Government has been lauded on its efforts towards curbing examination malpractices in the State. The Human Resources Manager, West African Examination Council (WAEC), Mr Adesoji Faboro, gave the commendation at the 2020 WAEC State Committee Meeting held at the Ministry of Education headquarters in Ilorin, the state capital, saying: ‘The swapping of Principals from their schools to other schools and the involvement of External Monitoring Teams that cut across lecturers from the State’s Colleges of Education were good and laudable initiatives which, no doubt, had gone a long way in reducing examination malpractices and enhancing the development of education sector in the State.’ The WAEC Manager, however, implored the Commissioner for Education and Human Capital Development, Hajia Fatimah Bisola Ahmed, to sustain the tempo in the interest of the youth, who are future leaders but have been brainwashed. The Commissioner, Hajia Fatimah Bisola Ahmed, represented by the Director, Curriculum and Assessment, Alhaji Ismail Ibrahim, appreciated the West Africa Examination Council for recognising the efforts of the present administration in curbing examination malpractices in the State, reiterating the commitment of Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq’s administration to the provision of sound and quality education that would make the youth self-reliant and productive in life. The meeting was well attended by stakeholders in the education sector in the State. Meanwhile, the Chairman, Kwara State House of Assembly Committee on Education, Saliu Muhammad Baba Boriya, has also commended the state government for allowing External Monitoring Teams that cut across the academia from the State’s Colleges of Education to partake in this year’s West African body’s examination supervision and for the swapping of Principals, noting that the initiatives accounted for the hitch-free examinations recorded in the State. Boriya stated this at the official presentation of reports of the External Monitoring Teams on WAEC Supervision led by Dr Ayorinde Israel of College of Education, Ilorin, to the Commissioner for Education. He said: “This is a landmark achievement in the history of education development in Kwara State. The initiatives have contributed immensely to the drastic reduction in examination malpractices and also boosted the morale of our students, that they can also make it without cheating in their examinations.” He called on education stakeholders to join hands with the State Government in its efforts to eradicate examination malpractices in the State. In his remarks, the Chairman, External Monitoring Teams, Dr Ayorinde Israel, appreciated the responsiveness of Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq led administration for proving that education is indeed the bedrock of development of any society. He said: ‘The Governor has been able to change the scandalous narrative, not just by paying the huge fine for examination malpractices to WAEC but also by ensuring that examination malpractice has no room in the State anymore.’ He implored the government to sustain the initiatives in subsequent examinations in the State so as to nip the dastardly act permanently in the bud. 