Sola Ojo, Kaduna In commemoration of this year’s World Toilet Day, President, Nigerian Volleyball Federation and Director, Centre for Water and Environmental Development (CWED), Engr Musa Nimrod, on Thursday handed over a newly built eight units of the water system toilets to LGEA Nursery and Primary School, Hanyi Banki, Kawo, Kaduna. Nimrod, who was an old pupil of the school class of 1975, was seen physically elated for the opportunity to render this humanitarian service to mankind through CWED. CWED is a Kaduna-based non-government organization in the forefront of promoting water, sanitation and hygiene in Kaduna State and Nigeria at large. “CWED is glad about this project and the impact it will have on the lives of about 5,000 pupils who happen to run morning and afternoon section as a way to success to achieve the long-overdue Open Defecation Status-ODF. “In line with the theme for this year World Toilet Day, Sustainable Sanitation and Climate Change”, we have decided that we commission it on this fateful day that the world recognizes as World Toilet Day which is an annual global advocacy day dedicated to increasing awareness and understanding about the important role sanitation plays in reducing the spread of diseases and creating healthier communities. “Today, I am very happy to render this little service to my former primary school where I graduated from in 1975”, he said. Speaking on the theme of the commemoration for the year, Programme Manager, CWED, Shanni Doris Zakama, regretted that climate change was getting worse, “flood, drought and rising sea levels are threatening sanitation systems from toilets to septic tanks to treatment plants”. To her, “everyone must have sustainable sanitation, alongside clean water and hand-washing facilities, to help protect and maintain our health security and stop the spread of deadly infectious diseases such as COVID-19, cholera and typhoid etc. “Sustainable sanitation systems also reuse waste to safely boost agriculture, reduce and capture emissions for greener energy. “The importance of toilet can never be overemphasized. Toilets save lives because human waste spreads killer diseases. World Toilet Day is about inspiring action to tackle the global sanitation crisis and reduce Open Defecation practice across the nation. “The Centre for Water and Environment Development is burdened about the sustainability plan of this facility we encourage the Government to have caregivers/Cleaners across the Nursery and primary schools in the State. There were representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, Kaduna State, Clean Nigeria Campaign, Water Right Initiative, School-Based Management Committee among others at the official commissioning of the facility.   