Nearly every one snores now and THEN the degree may be the only thing that vary, but for some people it can be a chronic problem. Sometimes it may also indicate a serious health condition. In addition snoring can be a nuisance to your partner. Snoring is the hoarse or harsh sound that occurs when air flows past relaxed tissues in your throat, causing the tissues to vibrate as you breathe. Snoring is often associated with a sleep disorder called “Obstructive Sleep Apnea”(OSA). Not all snores have OSA, but if snoring is accompanied by any of the underlisted D3  symptoms, it may be an indication to consult your doctor. If you experience pauses during sleep, or if your partner complains. Excessive daytime sleepiness which suggests inadequate night sleep. Difficulty concentrating. Morning headaches. Sore throat upon awakening. Restless sleep. Gasping or choking at night. High blood pressure. Chest pain at night. Your snoring is so loud it is disrupting your partner’s sleep. In children poor attention span, behavioral issues or poor performance in school. What causes snoring? Snoring can be caused by a number of factors, such as the anatomy of your mouth and sinuses, excess alcohol consumption allergies, a fever, catarrh and your weight. When you doze off and progress from light sleep to deep sleep, the muscles in the roof of your mouth(soft palate), tongue and throat relax. The tissue in your throat can relax enough that they partially block your airway and vibrate. There are some risk factors that aggravate snoring, these include, being a man, being overweight, having a narrow airway, drinking alcohol, having nasal problems, having a family history of snoring or obstruction sleep apnea. How do we manage snoring? Lifestyle changes will be recommended by your doctor, such as: Losing weight. Avoiding alcohol close to bedtime. Treating nasal congestion. Avoiding sleep deprivation. Avoiding sleeping on your back. For more serious snoring accompanied by OSA, your doctor may suggest oral appliances example form-fitting dental mouthpieces, that help advance the position of your jaw, tongue and soft palate, to keep your air passage open. Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP). This involves wearing a mask over your nose or mouth while you sleep. The mask directs pressurized air from a small bed side pump to your airway to keep keep it open during sleep. CPAP eliminates snoring and is most often used in treating snoring when associated with OSA Upper airway surgery – uvulopalatopharyngoplasty(UPPP) – you are given general anesthesia and your surgeon tightens and trims excess tissues from your throat – a type of face lift for your throat. Always be medically guided. Please follow me on Twitter @_DRSUN 