lowances that we don’t get including the Earned Academic Allowance (EAA) that is at the centre of the negotiation with government. “Nobody in COOU has any pension package. Let those people give you just one name of any staff that retired in COOU that has been paid pension. It is very embarrassing. Let somebody give you a name of any staff in COOU that has a record in the tax office; whether state or national tax office that pays tax through the bursary of our university; not even a single person.” However, the Public Relations Officer of COOU, Dr Chris Chukwuemeka, debunked allegations against the VC and university’s management: “I don’t think that these bundled up issues are as exact as they had narrated them. What they said is not as true as they had said them because I do not think that there are those who have had issues with taxes or whatever. “Coming to lecture halls, we have several ETF halls that are vacant and we have Nwazojie Hall donated by a Senior Advocate of Nigeria. Both here (Igbariam) and Uli, there are up to nine different ETF halls. How could someone now say that there are not enough lecture halls? That is why I say that I do not think that what they said is as correct as they said them. It may be because they do not know the reality.”
On the issue of not having pension package for its staff, the PRO queried: “Do you not think that someone who should think about whether pension is zero or not should be someone who is retired? Are these people who are saying it retired? This is because one wouldn’t begin to tell stories about what he is not too sure of. “Even if for any reason there are problems before now, it is not as ugly as they’re painting it. Perhaps, some of these things came up because they felt that schools reopened contrary to what should have been; otherwise these issues should have come out earlier. Why now? That would tell you the reasons. The entire ideas of theirs are not as they have actually painted them.”
On the allegation that the VC sent gun-wielding security men to chase away ASUU members: “That is not true. How could the VC who is for all persons go on to do a thing like that? It is not true. The VC, Prof Nwakoby, cannot do that.”  