Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Former President Goodluck Jonathan and Bayelsa State Governor Douye Diri have again preached peace urging politicians in the state to unite and eschew enmity irrespective of their political affiliations. The duo spoke on Monday during the 9th Bayelsa State Annual Thanksgiving Day Celebration at the state’s Ecumenical Centre, Igbogene, Yenagoa, the state capital. Jonathan who was attending the Thanksgiving Day after several years of being absent in previous editions urged the political class to learn from Christians, saying that despite their so many religious denominations, all of them believe in God through Christ and that brought them together always. “Yes, they (Christians) may have their differences in terms of method and approach. In Bayelsa State, we the political class should know that we get into politics primarily for the interest of the state and the people of the state. “So, no matter our political divisions, no matter the political parties we belong; let us know that because of the interest of the state, we must unite. “At the end of elections, the remaining thing is governance and supporting those, who by divine providence have won elections. We should not continue enmity among ourselves irrespective of our political parties. As long as you are a Bayelsan, we must work together, we must love ourselves. “Yes, brothers can belong to different political parties, there is a case where husband and wife belong to different political parties, siblings belong to different political parties, but the common interest of the family is retained, so the common interest of Bayelsa State must be retained irrespective of our political parties. If we continue to work together and put the interest of the state before any other interest, surely Bayelsa State will develop.” Diri who seized the opportunity of the occasion to again extend an olive branch to his political opponents urged politicians to be building bridges instead of burning them. According to him before the All Progressives Congress or the Peoples Democratic Party were created, Bayelsa was there. He noted that he had said repeatedly that their two hands were open for all their brothers, whether in the APC, in PDP or in any other party that it was time to build Bayelsa State. “This is not the time for us to continue in litigations, this is the time for us to build and bring out ideas to the table. If you have the idea of a blue economy, bring it to the table, we are ready to accept it, if you have an idea of a green economy, bring it to the table. In his sermon entitled, ‘God of Miracles’, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, prayed for Bayelsa State for the master key that open doors of breakthroughs and goodness. He said: “I always feel at home when I am in Bayelsa State. Let me rejoice with our Governor for this Thanksgiving and that this joy shall last forever in Jesus name. 