Ighomuaye Lucky, Benin Edo State Police Command, yesterday, paraded one Mr. Otabor Frank, age, 50, for burning down a police station during the #EndSARS protest in Benin City. Addressing Journalists during the parade of the suspects at the command, the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Johnson Kokumo said Otabor and one other who is at large, took a gallon of petrol and matches to the station at the popular Small Market at Dumez road, off Sapele road, Benin City and set it ablaze. Also paraded was Moses Joseph, 24. He was said to have teamed up with his gang member to rob, kill his victim and dumped his remains into Ikpoba River. Moses Joseph further narrated his involvement thus”Inside last year, we were driving from Iyaro and eventually saw him at the Five Junction. “So, we decided to hit his car from the behind. So he chose to follow us with the intention of asking us to fix it. “We however lured him to Tenboga and when we got there, we asked him to surrender all that he has. “We collected his ATM. We asked him how much was in his account, he said N2.5m. So, other of my gang asked me to keep an eye on him while they go to the bank to catch the money. “While they were away, the man decided to wrestle with me and at that time, I was having a knife in my hand. “So I overpowered him, stabbed him and dumped his remains into the river”, he said.  The Commissioner of Police, Mr. Johnson Kokumo said that the policemen are not folding their arms and watch hoodlums have a field day. Kokomo said; “Our main concern now, is geared towards re-arresting the escapees and recovering the looted and other illicit arms and ammunition in circulation. To this end, the police and other security agencies in conjunction with the State Government put machineries in place to checkmate the activities of these rampaging hoodlums, which have yielded some positive results.” The police commissioner noted that 16 suspected cultists from different secret cult confraternities were arrested at different locations within the state for engaging in cult related activities, murder, vandalism, armed robbery and disturbance of public peace. He added that two AK 47 assault rifles,four locally made guns, one Toyota Yaris Saloon car marked UBJ-447-SZ, a Toyota Highlander marked DGE-524-AH and 21 live cartridges were recovered from the suspects. 