Okwe Obi, Abuja No fewer that 128 Civil Society Organisations, have accused the Publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore, of resuscitating and hijacking the #EndSARS protest to blackmail the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. The groups claimed that the move was a potential threat to national security and public safety, considering the repercussions when suspected hoodlums hijacked the protest, looted warehouses, killed innocent citizens, and destroyed both public and private properties. In a statement jointly signed yesterday, by its National Coordinator, Tunde Aremu, Secretary, Chimbuchi Akuabata, Women leader, Hadiza Hamza respectively; they stressed that the recent protests staged by Sowore at the Force Headquarters and the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, were needless given the resolution of President Buhari to implement the 5 demands. Aremu urged the youths not to cave in to the activist’s antics to incite the people against the present administration, stressing that if allowed, it would puncture the fragile peace in the country. He further expressed confidence in the capacity of state governments – through the Judicial Commissions of Inquiry – to do justice to the cases of extra-judicial killings, extortion and other crimes committed against the citizenry by the defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). “We observed with great concern how one Omoyele Sowore, the publisher of SaharaReporters, led some few Nigerians knowingly or unknowingly to Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport and Louis Edet House (Force Headquarters), all in Abuja using the #EndSARS platform. “While at the places, Sowore and his members scrupulously inscripted the #EndSARS on a major road, even when it was glaringly clear what he stands for. “Nigerians have already known Sowore’s antics, which is to blackmail government for some condition or conditions. “We, however, wish to set the records straight for those who may not know the person of Sowore: He is an enemy of the state. Sowore prepared himself prior to his resolve to be so. “That was why he moved his family abroad, specifically to the United States of America (US), where they live now as citizens there. Yes, his wife and children leave outside Nigeria and are citizens of America, hence cannot be affected by any destruction or war in Nigeria. “Most of his accomplices don’t have stakes in Nigeria. A careful review of the pictures of most of the people making inciting statements on social media and instigating youths in Nigeria against authorities, don’t live here; they operate from outside the country, Aremu said.” He added that, “their main grouse against President Muhammadu Buhari is that the president blocked almost all sources of corruption and free money where they used to benefit from. “Realising that their sources of illicit income had been blocked, they are doing everything possible to pull the government down. “We call on Nigerian youths to be circumspect this time around, and not fall prey to the antics of Mr Sowore, who is out to destroy our country. “We must realise that if we destroy Nigeria, we would have done ourselves so much wrong. “We advise those who are uncomfortable with the president and his administration to wait until 2023, to use their voters cards in removing him democratically through numerical strength.” 