Rose Ejembi, Makurdi The Arch Bishop of Abuja Catholic Diocese, Arch Bishop Ignatius Kaigama has expressed the hope that the EndSars protests recently carried out by the youths of the country would awaken the political will in leaders of the country and in everyone who should do something about it. Bishop Kaigama who stated this on Sunday, during the homily at the celebration of 90th anniversary of Holy Ghost parish Makurdi, Benue State explained that the youths have again highlighted what the Catholic Bishop conference have been talking about. “Let us not pretend that there is no problem in the country. Let us not behave like the Ostrich that buries its head in the sand and behave like there is no danger. There is danger. The brutality we are suffering in the hands of the police was enough and the youths have said it.” He noted that the Catholic conference had been stressing the need for all Nigerians to stop corruption so that the wealth of the nation can go round. “We kept saying that but they didn’t listen. Now, the youths have said it. I hope it will wake us all up and I hope that the next political dispensation will be a different one. “Not of selfish interest but with values. We have been driven by selfish, self centered materialistic interest, by religious, tribal, partisan, political sentiments and that is why we can’t grow. We make one step forward and three steps backwards. The youths are determined to change this. The Arch Bishop who lamented that the peaceful protest was hijacked at a point with killings and looting however urged the youths to continue to be peaceful in their protests and not allow the bad eggs among them destroy what they started. While expressing optimism that the change they earnestly desire will come at the right time, the Arch Bishop emphasized that “This world is not our home we have little time here so let us use the little time to embrace ourselves and embrace peace. “Force won’t bring peace.
Blessed are the peace makers for they shall be called sons and daughters of God. Let us embrace peace so we can see God,” Kaigama said. He appealed to parishioners to continue to support Bishop Wilfred Anagbe, Bishop of Makurdi Diocese and the Parish Priest, Rev. Fr. Moses Iorapuu in building the church and spreading the gospel. Kaigama said “there are over 1.3billion Catholics in the world and everyone have been contributing to the transmission of the gospel across the world. “Whatever good you can do, do it well. If they send you any where in the name of Christ, go there so we can all join in being saints in heaven and may God bless you all 90 times by 90,” he told parishioners. The event witnessed the confirmation of over 200 candidates for the Sacrament by Bishop Wilfred Anagbe who urged them to be active members and contribute to the growth of the church. 