Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) corps marshal, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, has directed the immediate resumption of all operational activities in the corps’ formations across the country, even as he mourned the victims of the fatal crash that occurred  in Enugu State last week. The corps marshal had earlier ordered the suspension of all enforcement activities as a result of the upsurge of the #EndSARS protests across the country. A statement by the corps public education officer, Bisi Kazeem, disclosed that the corps marshal gave the order in a memo to commanding officers in response to the urgent need to keep the roads safe. The statement also explained that it was also aimed at enforcing maximum compliance with road traffic regulations and safety guides, as well as forestalling  crashes and fatalities on the highways. While mourning the victims of the road traffic crash, Oyeyemi confirmed that, out of the 56 people involved, 21 persons lost their lives. He said the crash, on Wednesday, October 28, at Nkwo/Mmaku junction, in Awgu Local Government Area, along old Enugu/Okigwe road, involved a Mercedes Benz bus (ENU 811 KU) conveying schoolchildren and a flatbed Mack truck (KPP 247 XA). The crash was caused by mechanical deficiency (brake failure). Speaking further, Dr. Oyeyemi stressed that the corps was saddened by the ugly development and was ready to put all within its operational might to ensure that such fatalities are averted. He said that one of the key strategies towards achieving this was the full deployment of personnel and increased visibility of patrol teams on the highways. According to him, irrespective of the incessant attacks that led to the looting, arson and damage of FRSC properties in various locations occasioned by the #EndSARS protest, the corps was still deeply committed to the full realisation of its corporate mandate, and would not be detracted. While boosting the morale of the workforce, Oyeyemi assured the personnel that everything humanly possible must be done to safeguard the lives and properties and those of family members of staff , as well as all FRSC facilities through close liaison with security agencies. 