Molly Kilete, Abuja The Defence Headquarters(DHQ), said soldiers on anti banditry operations in Zamfara State have arrested 3 suspected gun runners a suspected bandits’ collaborator in Kastina, Sokoto and Zamfara States. The suspects gunrunners, Abubakar Mohammed and Ansi Usman Jamare, from Sokoto state, were found to be in possession of one Light Machine Gun, 4 AK47 rifle magazines, 586 rounds of 7.62mm NATO ammunition, 100 rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition and one motorcycle at the time of their arrest. Coordinator Defence Media Operations Major General John Enenche, who made this known in a statement, said the soldiers also arrested one Jamilu Usman who works as informant to bandits at Funtua in Katsina State and killed two bandits while attacking Fegi Baza village in Tsafe Local Government Area of Zamfara State, and recovered some arms and ammunitions from them. Enenche in the statement said “In continuation of aggressive clearance operation to stamp out banditry and sundry crimes in the country, troops of Operation ACCORD have recorded tremendous successes. Troops acting on credible intelligence on movement of suspected gun runners at Tangaza Town arrested 2 suspects . The suspects named Abubakar Mohammed from Bodinga Local Government Area and Ansi Usman Janare from Gohono village of Tangaza Local Government Area of Sokoto State were arrested yesterday 8 November 2020. Items recovered from them include one Light Machine Gun, 4 AK47 rifle magazines, 586 rounds of 7.62mm NATO ammunition, 100 rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition and one motorcycle. The suspects are currently in custody for further action. In another development on 8 November 2020, following credible intelligence that bandits were operating at Fegi Baza village in Tsafe Local Government Area of Zamfara State, troops swiftly mobilized to the area and made contact with armed bandits. After exchange of fire, the gallant troops overwhelmed the bandits thereby neutralizing 2 of them. Items recovered include one motorcycle, 4 magazines and 2 cell phones.
Relatedly, troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI DAJI deployed at Dan-Ali village arrested one suspected bandits’ collaborator named Jamilu Usman at Funtua Local Government Area of Katsina State. The suspect is currently in custody for necessary action. The gallant troops have continued to dominate the general area with aggressive and confidence building patrols. Additionally, the Air Component of Operation HADARIN DAJI have continued to dominate the air space with air patrols providing close air support for ground troops with Intelligence Surveillance Reconnaissance missions. 4. The Military High Command congratulates the gallant troops for their dexterity and encourages them to remain resolute in the fight against enemies of our Nation.   