Chinelo Obogo The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has proposed to undergo a name change as part of efforts to ensure that Nigeria has just one industry regulator. The agency seeks to change its name from FAAN to the Federal Airports Administration of Nigeria and is also seeking to amend or enact Bills that would aid the agency in security as well as legal representations going forward. Its Managing Director, Rabiu Yadudu, made these known in his opening remarks at the ongoing three-day public hearing on the amendment of six executive bills of aviation agencies, hosted by the Senate Committee on Aviation. Yadudu said since 1999, there has been no significant amendment to the FAAN Act and the repealing and enacting of Acts is the perfect opportunity to make changes to ensure the vibrant airport manager and remove the misconception that FAAN is a regulator. “Proposing a bill that the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria ( FAAN) in line with International Civil Aviation Organisation ( ICAO) regulations which states that there is only one regulator in the industry, we propose a change of name to the Federal Airports Administration of Nigeria ( FAAN). “We are also seeking to retain the laws to allow the FAAN Aviation security carry arms as well as another Bill seeking legal officers of FAAN to represent the agency during a time of litigation and reduce such,” Yadudu said. At the hearing, the Managing Director of Overland Airways, Edward Boyo, claimed that not less than 100 domestic airlines have folded in the past 20 years due to high charges and unfavourable operating environment. Boyo said that not less than 35 charges like Ticket Sales Charge (TSA), Cargo Sales Charge (CSC), Value Added Tax (VAT), N2, 000 Airport Tax, landing fee, parking fee, navigation fee, terminal charges, security taxes, fuel surcharges, handling charges, corporate income tax, and fuel tax among others are crippling business and warned that if some of the charges were not abolished or amended, more airlines in the industry would close shop soon. He said: “Airlines in Nigeria are victims of the environment created by laws. Some of the laws were promulgated possibly when we were comfortable doing so. We must look at a way of bringing down costs to the airlines. Our airlines are suffering today. “Why are airlines dying in Nigeria? Over 100 airlines have come and gone in Nigeria in the past 20 years. Are the airlines to pay for the inefficiencies of these agencies? Very soon, there may not be any airline again in Nigeria. 