The Ogun State Government, in collaboration with Orange Card, is planning to host maiden edition Teachers Fest in the State, in order to inculcate and impact Information, Communication Technology (ICT ). It will also contain the training of teachers on Information Communication Technology (ICT), so as to enhance a better training/teaching of wards in the course of their job. The programme, which will come hold on the November 28, tagged “Teachers Fest”, at Abeokuta, the state capital. Speaking to newsmen during a press conference, the Coordinator, Orange Card, Mr Abiodun Oshodi said the Teachers Fest was first of its kind in Nigeria and Ogun State, noting that teachers were the most important people on Earth. “The reward of teachers should not be in heaven but should be enjoyed on the earth, the Teachers form the people content of the input of Education while technology is there to enable them to be better at delivering value,” Oshodi said He noted that during the Teachers Fest, the Teachers would be exposed to the new global system of delivering and making learning attractive to their wards/pupils as well as teachers. He added that it would be of help in delivering value to the society, which would also be trained on ICT at enhancing better teaching, adding that the state has done best for teachers in terms of timely payment of their salaries and emoluments. He said the strategic workshop would provide ample opportunity for master class training for those interested, noting that it would flag off ICT training teachers, awards that would attract 10 million Naira grant for career advancement and for continued self-improvement to become the best. Also, the Gateway Mortgage Bank, said the bank pledges support for the programme, saying that teachers were the pride of the word which shouldn’t be undermined in the society. Speaking earlier, the Director of Information, Bureau of Information (BIT), Mrs Olatundun Adekunle said the TechHub cares for the teachers in the State in order to widen their knowledge on Digital as we were on the digital age. She said teachers would benefit immensely on the upcoming Teachers Fest which comprises of different activities, such as access to discount market, special ICT master class session that would be hosted in the State. 