United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has commended the Kebbi Government for its 82 per cent improvement in primary healthcare in 2019 from 54 per cent in 2012. The Director, USAID Mission Abuja, Mrs Anne Patterson, gave the commendation in a virtual address to the 2020 First USAID/Kebbi State Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) review meeting on Tuesday. She said that she was satisfied with the performance of government in the implementation of the MoU throughout the state in spite of the challenges on ground. Petterson, who advised the government to digitise health data in the state, gave the assurance that USAID would further provide the state with the necessary input towards attaining the target objective. “We sympathise with the government and people of Kebbi state on the recent flood which destroyed infrastructure, farmlands, foodstuffs and lives,” the director said. In his address, Gov. Atiku Bagudu, thanked USAID for acknowledging the effort of the state government in healthcare delivery. He pledged to sustain the goal of universal healthcare coverage in spite of the challenges of flood and COVID-19 pandemic. “I am grateful to USAID and GAVIL for announcing new support to Kebbi state in the areas of human resource for health and health system strengthening. “The state has done very well since 2018 in the release of funds to Primary Health Care (PHC) through the monthly routine LGA PHC fund which is released every month since inception. “We also thank officials of the Ministry of Health and urge them to continue to strive to deliver quality healthcare to the people of Kebbi state. “We, however, commend our traditional rulers for their support in this direction, as the mosquito net distribution by USAID in collaboration with the traditional rulers, has reduced cases of malaria. “The traditional rulers have now been mobilised to, during weekly Juma’at prayer sermon, inform their subjects to always embrace healthcare delivery,” the governor said. The Commissioner for Health, Alhaji Ja’afaru Mohammad, said the state government was partnering with all healthcare providers and also discharging its responsibility in counterpart funding. Mohammad, while presenting the programme status of MoU milestone and expected results by May 2021, gave details of achievements in all areas of healthcare delivery in the state. The commissioner commended USAID for its contribution to the development of primary healthcare system and GAVI for its support. The Emir of Argungu, Alhaji Sama’ila Mera, said the emirate council would support primary healthcare delivery in the state. Mera, represented by Alhaji Muhammadu Bashar, said the emirate council was also ready to mobilise the people to embrace healthcare policies and programmes for their own good. (NAN) 