 Long before now, the herbal business was seen as a business for the uncultured, the uneducated and unpolished lower cadre of the society until some high-stake players rode into town with technology and innovation. And at the apex of the ladder is Kolaqalabo, the generally acclaimed first herbal e-commerce platform in Nigeria. Kolaqalagbo, when it arrived on the scene it was pretty much an uncharted territory so what it needed was to change the narrative and move the ancient practice into the realm of technology- driven enterprise, while following dictates of modern trends. Going online and electronic was a good way to do it and the company did it with aplomb. After achieving respectable success on the Internet, the next movie was to have influencers push the brand which at the time wasn’t a cozy venture. “Kolaqalagbo is the best thing that has happened to herbal practice in the last , making specialization in business more attractive. When we started a whole lot of influencers would tell you they could not be an ambassador to a herbal brand or something. Nobody believed one could sell alternative remedy online without proper consultation. We are the first herbal brand online e-commerce in sales and services. People were used to the hawking and scruffy means of herbal practice. We have rebranded herbal practice and make it well known through social media. We started online then expansion brought us in touch with so many aspects of herbal practice,” says the founder, Olayemi Omotolani Abeeb Lateef in a recent interview. The company, since going online with a huge following on Instagram, many Nigerian celebrities have identified with it, either as an influencer, a partner or media collaborator. In early 2019 the duo of Toyin Lawani, the boss lady at Tiannah Empire and former Big Brother Naija star, Teddy A penned a contract with the company as brand ambassadors. This saw the birth of many raunchy videos and photo shoots by the duo. Instagram comedians Cutest Biola and Mr Jollof have also flirted with the company in varying capacities. Eniola Badmus, B-Red, Pasuma Wonder, Nkechi Blessing, Berbiedoll, Sotayo Sobola and many others have also all identified with the brand at one time or other.
“We are truly the black man’s hidden secret of healing. We specialize in the sale and consultancy of natural health care products made from the best natural ingredients produced in Nigeria and other global communities blessed with curative herbs. Herbal products and remedies which are made from various blend of natural ingredients such as fruits , roots ,vegetables , and herbs are catching a lot of attention globally because of its efficiency and effectiveness with the unique attribute of stopping re-occurrence,” says the founder. Kolaqalagbo was established in 2012 as Kolaqalagbo Service Limited with a view to redefining excellence in herbal practice in Nigeria and global communities. Contrary to general notion that the company is into the aphrodisiac business, Kolaqalagbo proffers solution to many illnesses and ailments, including but not limited to venereal diseases, general infections, cardiovascular diseases, high blood sugar, malaria and many more. Their best selling products which are being celebrated by the young and old are their alcoholic drinks brands; Kolaqalagbo Bitters, 4Ka X tea and Do D Do Bitters. Apart from changing the face of herbal business in Nigeria, Kolaqalagbo has offered employment opportunities to many in form of commission. There are many vendors who sell their products for commissions. Their factory boast of more than 180 workers including actual staff of 18 and contract staff numbering over 20. The company also has commission plans for distributors which stand as employment opportunities and side hustle for so many people. 