The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), has hinted of plans to develop some of the country’s critical gas infrastructure from the 2021 budget. The Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mr. Mele Kyari,  gave the indication when the House of Representatives Committee on Gas Resources made an oversight visit to the Corporation in Abuja recently. In his welcome address to the visiting legislators,  Kyari, expressed gratitude to the Committee for its continued support to the Corporation,   adding he was pressing on to ensure that approvals of budgets appropriated for core gas infrastructure alongside the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) which is currently before the National Assembly are looked into. The GMD, who was represented by the Chief Operating Officer, Gas & Power, Engr. Yusuf Usman, said NNPC will continue to engage and seek further support for approvals of budgets appropriated for critical Gas Infrastructure Projects as well as the speedy passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) 2020 which is currently before the National Assembly. He reiterated the Corporation’s commitment to the provision of alternative fuels for Nigerians through the deployment of LPG and CNG skids at filling stations for automobiles. “This will give Nigerians more opportunity to enjoy cheaper fuels for their vehicles as well as reduce carbon emission footprints in line with the global environmental aspirations,” he said. Chairman, House Committee on Gas Resources, Mr. Nicholas Mutu, applauded the Mallam Mele Kyari-led Management team of the NNPC for its achievements in the areas of gas infrastructure development, gas supply obligations for the domestic market and the NLNG Train 7 Project. Mutu said that the committee was pleased with the ongoing drive by the corporation to promote the use of gas as a cheaper and cleaner form of energy. “It is a step in the right direction. Indeed, gas resources have come to take the pride of place in our national development agenda, and given the quantum of proven gas reserves in the country, we can rightly declare that Nigeria is more of a gas country,” Mutu stated. He said the Committee was satisfied with the provisions of the Petroleum Industry Bill 2020 on gas resources development, particularly Section 52 which provides for the establishment of a Midstream Gas Infrastructure Fund. “We acknowledge the efforts of the Management of NNPC in developing the gas sector, and we commend them on the existing projects. The Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) gas pipeline that was recently launched by Mr. President is an exhibition of total commitment by the NNPC” he said. This will give Nigerians more opportunity to enjoy cheaper fuels for their vehicles as well as reduce carbon emission footprints in line with the global environmental aspirations,” he said. 