Chukwudi Nweje The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Lagos chapter, has asked Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to resign as he no longer enjoyed the confidence of the people. Publicity Secretary of the party, Taofik Gani, said Sanwo-Olu could no longer be trusted following disclosure that he invited the army to quell and disperse EndSARS protesters at the Lekki Toll-Gate, where an unspecified number of people were killed and injured. “The PDP is of the view that it is more expedient for Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to step aside now that the army has revealed him as the person who invited the soldiers to quell the Lekki protests which led to unfortunate fatalities and grievous injuries. “ Obviously, Lagosians can no longer trust a governor who denies his actions in government. Sanwo-olu has no moral standing worth being proud of and he should admit this and honourably leave the stage as governor. Lagos is held down by his recent misdeeds. Sanwo-Olu has done his best, but not good enough to propel the state to greater development heights. The state is now inadequate in areas of security, commerce, infrastructure, government-citizens’ trust, among others,” Gani said. He decried what he called the “multiple collapses of pillars of good governance in the state” in the last two weeks, and added that the state had become overwhelmed by issues of insecurity, even as residents were panicky and did not know what would  happen next. “If this state continues to experience this  collapses in next 72 hours, it may suffer a declaration of a state of emergency, a step that would likely deprive all. The anarchical traffic situations, corruption in state services, high-handedness, favouritism in the state is disturbing.” Chief Press Secretary to Governor Sanwo-Olu, Mr Gboyega Akosile, declined to comment  on the issue, but referred this reporter to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Several calls and text messages to the APC chairman, Babatunde Balogun and publicity secretary, Oluseye Oladejo were not replied. Former spokesman,of the party,  Joe Igbokwe, said he could no longer speak for the APC, but however, described  the PDP as a moribund party in the state and in no position to make such demands. “Only the electorate that elected Governor Sanwo-Olu can remove him from office and not a moribund party like PDP,” he said. 