Governor of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola, has said the slogan “IleriOluwa”, which has become the mantra of his administration, was given to him by God. Speaking at the thanksgiving service held in commemoration of the second anniversary of his administration at The Redeemed Christian Church of God, Osun Province 1 Headquarters, Osogbo, Oyetola said the slogan came from a divine revelation where God assured him that he would be the governor of Osun. He said: “The administration was founded by God Himself, and I will tell you why. I am ordinarily not one who sees visions but on two occasions,  I had a strange encounter. “Imagine the son of an Imam receiving a Christian song in a dream.  That was my encounter. All I could remember on both occasions was the last line of the song which says ‘IleriOluwa ni lati se’ (the will of God must be done). Outside of that dream,  I had never heard the song before. “When the impression was heavy on my heart, I called one of my friends to ask him about the song, and he told me the song was the  track 2 of Timi Osokoya’s song. He went out to get me the album; immediately I started listening to the track, my consciousness was restored and then I had an understanding of what God was saying to me. That revelation has continued to give me confidence of victory each time I’m faced with legal and political battles since becoming governor. On October 17, there was an attempt on my life but the Almighty God spared my life because He has appointed me for a special assignment that must be accomplished. “God has been faithful and He has shown us that all things are possible with Him. We promised to give priority to the welfare and security of citizens, and God has helped us to pay full salaries since the inception of our administration. “We promised to look into the health of our people, and as we speak, we have delivered 332 primary healthcare centres across the State. We have listened to the yearnings of the people and responded to their needs, especially in the area of education. “Today, I am here to thank Almighty God and I have every reason to do do so… “We are 24 months in government, though we have not had more than one year of uninterrupted service. We started with several months of  litigation  and then came  the adverse effects of the global COVID-19  pandemic, closely followed by  the EndSARS protests. There was also an assassination attempt  on my life. “But today, we are  here to appreciate God who has made it possible for us to deliver on our promises.We promised that we will pay full salary, we are doing so. In education, we have fulfilled our promise.” 