A coalition of Nigerian-American organisations in the U.S. has pledged its support to President-elect Joe Biden and Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris. The pledge was conveyed in a congratulatory message by the Organisation for the Advancement of Nigerians on behalf of 18 other professional, religious and socio-cultural bodies. “On behalf of Nigerian-American communities in the United States, please accept our warm congratulations on your victories in this historic election. “We are confident that under your leadership and guidance, the soul of this great nation will return to what the founding fathers envisioned. “The Biden/Harris team is best positioned to bring us together as a nation, while honestly dealing with the threat of the ongoing pandemic and rebuilding our economy.” According to the organisations, the raging COVID-19 pandemic and other global challenges offer the U.S. a tremendous opportunity to strengthen its global leadership role. The coalition expressed optimism that a Biden-Harris administration would rise to the occasion, while also making life better for all Americans in an atmosphere of peace, equity and justice. “As you embark on this challenging journey be assured that Nigerian-American communities all over the U.S. are firmly behind you. “The Nigerian-American community is a large community of enterprising men and women, who contribute actively to the nation’s economic growth through job creation and business opportunities. “We are here to build with you. So call upon us whenever necessary. “We are excited to continue building on the values, legacies and contributions we have been making in various professions to the growth of the U.S. “We would like to see our demographic needs reflected on the ‘build back better’ agenda. “We look forward to working in close collaboration and partnership with you in critical and priority areas vital to the success of the policy thrust of the Biden-Harris administration,” the message read. The coalition include the Absolute Faith International Church; Akwa Ibom State Association, New York; Association for Credible Leadership in Nigeria; Association of Nigerian Physicians in the Americas; Celestial Church of Christ and the Cherubim and Seraphim Church Movement. Others are the Christ Apostolic Church First in the Americas; Igbo Organisation, New York; Karfi; Lagos Elite Club U.S.A.; Nigeria Independence Day Parade Committee; Nigerian American Public Affairs Committee and the Nigerian -Americans United. The Nigerian Diasporian Voice; Nigerian Lawyers Association; Nigerian Nurses Association of U.S.A.; Nigerian Youth Diaspora Engagement Forum; Occupy Nigeria Organisation; Regional Council of Nigerian Muslims. Your Black Matters also endorsed the message. (NAN) 