Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure No fewer than seven Senior Advocates of Nigera (SAN) are to represent Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State at the Elections Petition Tribunal sitting in Akure, the state capital. The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Eyitayo Jegede has dragged Akeredolu and his political party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) before the tribunal. Also joined in the suit is the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Jegede is challenging the victory of Akeredolu in the October 10 governorship election, claiming that the process that produced Akeredolu was marred by violence, irregularities and electoral malpractices. INEC had declared Akeredolu winner of the election, having polled the highest number of lawful votes in the election. However, it was gathered that Governor Akeredolu is prepared for the legal battle as he had engaged some senior lawyers, seven of whom are SANs to defend him before the tribunal. Akeredolu, himself a SAN, it was gathered had contacted some of his colleagues to defend him at the tribunal. A top government official who preferred anonymity told our correspondent that the Governor had already reached out to the lawyers It was learnt that tChief Wole Olanipekun (SAN) will lead the team of Akeredolu’s lawyer at the tribunal. Others that have been contacted, according to findings include, Niyi Akinola (SAN), Emeka Ngige (SAN), Akinlolu Olujimi (SAN), Olusola Oke (SAN) and Remi Olatubora. But it was not certain whether or not the lawyers have agreed to defend Governor Akeredolu at the tribunal. Akeredolu defeated his main challenger and candidate PDP, Mr Jegede, and his Deputy Governor who is also the candidate of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Agboola Ajayi, to emerge winner. He won in 15 out of the 18 Local Government Areas in the state, while his closest rival, Jegede, won in three local government areas and Ajayi failed to win in any of the local government area. Akeredoku polled 292,830 vites against Jegede who garnered 195,791. 