Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, unveiled the official logo of the N75 billion Nigeria Youth Investment Fund for the period of 2020-2023. This fund is dedicated to investing in the innovative ideas, skills and talents of Nigerian Youth and to provide them with a special window to access much needed financing, business management skills and other inputs critical for sustainable enterprise. Buhari who was represented by the Minister of Federal Capital Territory, Mohammed Bello at the first edition of National Youth Day, which coincided with the African Youth Day celebrations across the continent, said the event symbolises the importance his administration attaches and the priority it seek to give the nation’s young population. President noted that the maiden National Youth Day which was recently approved in August 2020 is the reaffirmation of his administration’s belief that the Nigerian Youth deserves recognition, validation and attention. President again assured the ENDSARS protesters that all their demands will be met. He said: “Today, I cannot stand before you and discuss Nigerian youth without talking about the current situation in the country. This administration is more than mindful of the recent protests and grievances against police brutality. “Like every good Nigerian, I oppose the wrongful use and imposition of violent force against any innocent, law-abiding persons, particularly our youth. No one who is obeying the law, whether they are in line waiting for a taxi or in a peaceful protest line, should be harassed or brutalized by law enforcement agencies. “It is because of my abiding belief in the people’s constitutional rights that we moved with dispatch to abolish SARS and to consider other reforms that will enhance the quality of law enforcement and improve the relationship between the police and public which is a pre-requisite in a just society. “To allow protests is not a sign of weakness.  It is a sign of strength and belief in democracy, and faith in the innate goodness of our people. This also shows confidence in the ability of our government to work with the people toward a reasonable and practical resolution to any challenge. “Let me add a word of advice to the protesters and I hope that they accept it in the spirit with which it is offered. This government extends a hand to you to come join in meaningful dialogue so that we may chart a way forward that will include necessary reforms needed for our police and other security services. “Your pleas have been heard. Now we want to hear your concrete and practical ideas. “You must realise that protests cannot last indefinitely.  Our government will not lift a hand to stop or suppress you. However, the fact of the matter is that other forces and actors will seek to take over your protests that they may redirect them in ways you did not intend and perhaps do not agree with. “Every successful protest movement the world over has understood that there comes a time when activity must move from the street to the negotiation table. That time for you has come. 