Laide Raheem, Abeokuta Police in Ogun State have arrested a 31 year old man, Rexlawson Johnson, over alleged murder of his girlfriend, Patricia John. The suspect, who hails from Ebonyi State was arrested on October 31, following a complaint by one Adebayo Aladesuyi, a manager of an hotel in Ibafo, Obafemi Local Government Area of the state, who reported at the Ibafo Police Station, that while carrying out routine check of the hotel rooms, he discovered the dead body of the occupant of one of the rooms with bruises on her neck region. On the strength of the report, the DPO of Ibafo Police Division, Jide Joshua led his detectives to the scene and recovered the corpse of the 26 year old victim and deposoted at the morgue of Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu, for post mortem examination. “Preliminary investigation later revealed that the deceased checked into the hotel with a man who sneaked out of the hotel after killing the woman. “Consequently, the DPO and his men commenced technical and intelligence based investigation which led to unraveling the identity of the suspect. He was subsequently traced and apprehended by the detectives. “On interrogation, he confessed checking into the hotel with the deceased and that they had a misunderstanding which led to a fight between them. In the process, he said the woman collapsed and gave up the ghost. He subsequently left the corpse in the room and sneaked out of the hotel”. Abimbola Oyeyemi, the spokesperson of the Ogun State Police Command, stated in a statement on Monday. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Edward Awolowo Ajogun, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and diligent prosecution. The CP also appealed to hoteliers in the state to always have proper documentation of their customers in order to assist the police in a situation where a crime is committed. 