Chukwudi Nweje  The Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), Lagos State chapter, has asked Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to resign as he no longer enjoys the confidence of the people. Publicity Secretary of the party in the state, Taofik Gani, on Sunday, said Gov Sanwo-Olu can no longer be trusted in the wake of the Nigerian Army’s disclosure that it was the governor that invited them to quell and disperse the ＃End SARS protesters at the Lekki Toll-Gate, where an unspecified number of people were either killed or injured. He said, “The PDP is of the view that it is more expedient for Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to step aside now that the Nigerian Army has revealed him as the person who invited the soldiers to go quell the Lekki protests which have led to unfortunate fatalities and grievous injuries. Obviously, Lagosians can no longer trust a governor who denies his conspiracy actions in government. Sanwoolu has no moral standing worth being proud of and he should admit this and honourably leave the stage as governor of the state. Lagos is held down by his recent misdeeds. Sanwo-Olu has done his best but not good enough to propel the state to greater development heights. The state is now very inadequate in areas of security, commerce, infrastructure, government – citizens trust, among others.” he said. He decried what he called the “multiple collapses of pillars of good governance in the state” in the last two weeks, and added that Lagos State has become overwhelmed by the issues of insecurity, even as residents are panicky and do not know what will happen next. “Indeed we have been vindicated that Sanwoolu was never prepared for the Seat but hurriedly seconded to be governor. This counselling is in good faith and for the overall interest of the state, because if this State continues to experience the collapses in next 72hours, it may suffer a declaration of a state of emergency, a step that would likely deprive all. The anarchical traffic situations, corruption in state services, high-handedness, favouritism in the state is disturbing”, the PDP said, The All Progressives Congress (APC) has however dismissed the demands of the APC.  However, former Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Joe Igbokwe, who said he can no longer speak for the party said the PDP is a moribund party in Lagos State and is in no position to make such demands. “Only the electorate that elected Gov Sanwo-Olu can remove him from office and not a moribund party like PDP”, he said.  