Do you know that there some medical conditions which can cause great harm to the body without showing obvious symptoms and signs but may only become noticed after irreparable damage has been done to the body. Hypertension belongs to the list of those pathologies regarded as ‘Silent Killers’. It is common practice among many not to check their health status as long as there are no physical symptoms or interference with daily activities. There is a common saying among people – ‘You get what you are searching for’ which explains why many would refuse any form of medical screening even when it is highly recommended. Hypertension is a very common disease that can affect many body systems and organs especially the heart and blood vessels. Oftentimes healthcare professionals hear people say “He has got BP (blood pressure )” but the fact is that everyone has blood pressure and the emphasis is on whether the blood pressure lies within normal limit or not. Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against artery wall. Blood flows through the blood vessels to and from the heart at a given pressure. For optimal functioning of organs and systems in the body, the blood pressure should be maintained at a given level which is less than 120/80mmHg. Negative health effects may be experienced when the blood lies considerably below or above the normal range expected for a given individual. Hypertension means sustained increased blood pressure (that is higher than normal or expected). A blood pressure level of 140/90mmHg or higher is considered high. Hypertension is one of the leading causes of illness and death in Nigeria. It is considered as one of the “Silent Killers” because  hypertension may show no symptoms in the early stages and has the potential to result in serious health consequences like artherosclerosis, heart attack, stroke, kidney disease amongst many others, and eventual lead to death. The cause of hypertension is unknown, it has been linked to certain risk factors(conditions that increase chances of developing a disease) that could be modifiable or non-modifiable, some of  which include excessive salt intake, obesity, high cholesterol, excessive alcohol consumption, increasing age( especially the elderly), family history, tobacco consumption, sedentary lifestyle, diabetes , pregnancy among others and mental stress, hence the saying “ One way to get high blood pressure is to go mountain climbing over molehills”- Earl Wilson. Most people with high blood pressure will not experience any symptoms. However, some people may feel vague symptoms like headache, nausea, dizziness, blurred or double vision, nose bleeds, restlessness, poor sleep amongst others. It is very important for adults to check their blood pressure regularly for early detection of any abnormality and prompt intervention. The extent of damage caused by hypertension depends on its severity and how long it continues without treatment. Most complications are seen in individuals who have not started medication or those with established disease but not compliant with medication and physician recommendation. Hypertension, when established requires follow- up and prompt treatment and regular clinic visits as it is a long term (chronic). Self- medication is a common practice amongst many in Nigeria and hugely affects the management and outcome of the disease. The modality of treatment to be given will depend on the degree/severity of the disease   on the individual upon presentation. Lifestyle modification plays a huge role in both management and prevention of hypertension. Some measures recommended include: Maintaining a healthy weight. It is very essential that a person maintains a healthy weight as it helps the body function normally.  It has been noticed that blood pressure rises as one’s body weight increases and thus obesity can predispose a person to hypertension or worsen already existing hypertension. The target/healthy body mass index (a measure of weight relative to height) should be maintained. Remember to lose weight healthily and safely if you are overweight or obese for sustained success. Being physically active. This helps to lower blood pressure and reduce the risk of heart disease. It also contributes to maintaining a healthy weight. It is recommended that adults should have 30minutes/day of moderate intensity exercises five days a week or 75 minutes of high intensity exercise per week. Exercises are many and varied, for example brisk walking, bicycling, running, dancing, gardening among many others. For individuals with hypertension, it is advised to check with your cardiologist for recommendations on suitable exercise before engaging in any. Eating healthy meals. Healthy eating can prevent and improve outcome from management of high blood pressure in an individual. Eating foods low in salt (sodium), saturated fat, sweets, sugared beverages, excess caffeine and cholesterol help prevent high blood pressure. Eating foods with high fibre content (as found in fruits, vegetables, legumes, whole grains), poultry, fish and nuts helps control blood pressure. Limiting alcohol consumption. Excess alcohol may not only put a person at risk of developing hypertension, but it also worsens already existing disease. Consumption of moderate amounts are recommended, which is one drink a day for men and two drinks a day for women. Avoid cigarette smoking.  If you do not smoke don’t start, if you do smoke stop. Discuss with your primary care provider for advice and further plans to quit smoking. Use Antihypertensive Medications as prescribed. For individuals that are on Antihypertensive medications, compliance to medication is advised. While on medication, individuals should still follow the lifestyle guidelines for effective control of hypertension. Effective stress management. Finding positive ways to deal with stress generally improves wellbeing, boosts immunity and prevents diseases. Globally, hypertension bears a huge burden as its effects are felt by not only the individual involved but also the family, community and country at large. However, with lifestyle modification and appropriate management the outcome will be improved. 