Obinna Odogwu, Awka An app which would be used to promote Igbo culture and tradition has been launched by Ndi Emume Owuwa Anyanwu in Awka, the capital of Anambra State. The app named Akuko Alaigbo and Nma Igbo, according to the team, would also be used to disseminate information on various issues that concern Ndigbo worldwide. Chairman of the team, Frankel Ogujiuba, in his address at the event held last Saturday, said that he was moved to come up with the idea because of his undying love for Igbo culture and tradition. He said that the app was largely for the promotion of Igbo identity. He said that through the app which could easily be accessed from every part of the world, awareness on cultural, economic, political, social and other issues and events in Igboland would be effectively created and publicised. Ogujiuba, who lamented the seeming unwillingness of some Igbo people to bring home part of their wealth and develop their place, said that his team intends to also harp more on the think home philosophy already being preached by some notable Igbo leaders. Chairman of the occasion, Chief Forster Ihejiofor, in his speech, commended the team for coming up with the innovation. He said that time had come for the Igbo to begin to tell their own stories in order to correct some of the odd views about them being projected by others. He also spoke about the need to develop Igbo land and make it a tourism and business destination where people from across the globe would love to visit and invest in. In their separate remarks, the traditional rulers of Nanka in Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra State and Agbada Inyi in Oji River LGA of Enugu State, Igwe Godwin Ezeilo and Igwe Ignatius Okpara respectively, commended Ndi Emume Owuwa Anyanwu for their efforts targeted at promoting Igbo culture and tradition. Igwe Okpara, however, appealed to parents to always teach their children Igbo Language first before any other language as Igbo Language could come second to none. Meanwhile, the Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development, Chief Uchechukwu Ogah, was conferred an award by the team alongside others even as the popular Anambra State Dance Troupe thrilled the audience with various spectacular dance presentations. 