Peter Anosike Imo State governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma, on Thursday, November 11, went on a tour of the Anoh gas plant facility site at Asaa, Ohaji/Egbema council in the state. Anoh Gas Processing Company (AGPC) is building the $700 million Anoh gas plant. The governor was led on the tour by a team of Seplat executives. AGPC is an incorporated joint venture owned 50:50 per cent by Seplat Petroleum Development Company and the Nigerian Gas Company (NGC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). The Seplat team comprising the Chairman, Dr ABC Orjiako; Chief Executive Officer, Roger Brown; Emeka Onwuka, Chief Financial Officer; Dr Chioma Nwachuku, General Manager, External Affairs and Communications; Ayodele Olatunde, General Manager, Eastern Assets; Yetunde Taiwo, Managing Director, Anoh Gas Processing Company Limited and Okechukwu Mba, General Manager, Gas, among others were on a courtesy call to the governor after which they took him to the multi-million dollar gas plant facility. Brown, the SEPLAT chief executive officer in his speech, elaborated the numerous benefits of the Anoh gas plant to the immediate communities, the state and the country. He affirmed that the Anoh gas plant when completed would be a significant source of development, providing gas to support the provision of the much-needed supply of power to millions of homes and businesses across Nigeria to facilitate better standard of living and drive economic growth. He reassured the governor that the existence of the gas plant in the state would in addition to the provision of power, generate different levels of employment; drive the development and engagement of local contractors; facilitate skills transfer and development, especially for the youths, amongst other benefits. The Seplat Chairman reiterated that the $700 million gas project aimed at producing around 300 MMscfd reinforced SEPLAT’s commitment towards its leading position in the energy transition to a cleaner source of energy while providing sustainable development of its host communities. He remarked that the Anoh gas project would, among other things, drive the growth of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) as an alternative to unclean fuels like firewood, charcoal, kerosene. He confirmed that the company is targeting the fourth quarter of 2021 for Anoh’s first gas and assured the government and people of Imo State of its timely completion and commission. Governor Uzodimma in his remarks welcomed the SEPLAT team and commended the company and its partners NNPC for the significant investment made in the state with the Anoh gas plant. He pledged the state’s continual support of the company in its quest to drive development in Imo State. He also commended the Chairman of SEPLAT, Dr Orjiako for his leadership role and passion for growing the Seplat business and its host communities. According to the governor, the activities of SEPLAT and its subsidiary AGPC are impressively geared towards developing the economy of Imo State and positively impacting its people. He charged other organizations to emulate SEPLAT in their dealings with the state. He also urged SEPLAT to continue to boost its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives to enhance further the people’s welfare and development of the community and its peoples. The governor summed up his remarks, saying: “SEPLAT enjoys tremendous goodwill and respect of the people, and the state is duty-bound to reciprocate. SEPLAT is a global entity, and its coming to Imo State is a blessing to us. Under my watch, SEPLAT will receive all the support needed for a win-win relationship that will benefit the economy of the state and the Imo people for a more constructive partnership, cordial and responsible relationship between SEPLAT and the State.” At the Anoh gas plant site, leaders of its host communities of Assa, Ohaji, Egbema and others, were also in attendance to receive the governor with fanfare. The visit to Imo State is in line with the Seplat CEO’s strategic plan since his resumption in office on August 1, 2020 to pay courtesy visits to the company’s strategic stakeholders. The SEPLAT CEO, Roger Brown, on behalf of the company, thanked the governor for the tremendous support accorded to facilitate the operations of AGPC and other SEPLAT operations in the state. He affirmed that this collaboration would boost delivery of the Anoh gas plant, a critical gas supply hub in Nigeria’s burgeoning gas infrastructure network. Anoh is designed to supply the Eastern, Western and Northern gas pipeline systems. AGPC is a subsidiary of SEPLAT, a leading gas supplier to the domestic market with the contribution to Nigeria’s power supply put at about 30 per cent. SEPLAT supports the Federal Government’s diversification agenda with its contribution to the growth of the nation’s power generation capacity. Delivery of the Anoh project will be a significant contributor to the Nigerian government’s aspiration for increased power generation and diverse industrial and economic growth. The Anoh gas plant project is premier among the seven Critical Gas Development Projects initiative led by the Ministry of Petroleum and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation to drive the next phase of growth for the gas business. 