Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), 261 concerned Nigerians, civil society and media groups have filed a lawsuit against the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) and Minister of Information and Culture, Mr Lai Mohammed, asking the court to “declare arbitrary, illegal, and unconstitutional the N9million fines imposed on Channels TV, AIT and Arise TV (N3million each) over their coverage of the #EndSARS protests, and to stop the NBC from collecting the money.” The co-plaintiffs in the suit are 255 concerned Nigerians, Premium Times Services Limited, Centre for Journalism Innovation and Development, HEDA Resource Centre, International Centre for Investigative Reporting, African Centre for Media and Information Literacy and Media Rights Agenda. Acting Director-General of NBC, Prof. Armstrong Idachaba, who is joined in the suit as defendant had last week announced the fines on the three television stations for “unprofessional coverage” of the #EndSARS protests. But in the suit number FHC/ABJ/CS/1436/2020 filed last Friday at the Federal High Court, Abuja, the plaintiffs sought an order setting aside the fines and any other penal sanction unilaterally imposed by NBC and minister of information on Channels, AIT and Arise TV, and on any other radio/television stations simply for carrying out their professional and constitutional duties. The plaintiffs argued that “Section (2)(n) of the NBC Act and broadcasting code are oppressive, and clearly inconsistent with the Nigerian Constitution and the country’s international obligations.” “ If the NBC and Mr Lai Mohammed are allowed to continue to use these oppressive provisions against independent media in the guise of performing their statutory duties, the end result will be authoritarianism and denial of freedom and liberty.” They claimed that the NBC and Mr Mohammed had consistently used broadcasting codes to suppress the watchdog roles of independent media, and to violate Nigerians’ human rights, including the rights to freedom of expression, to disseminate and receive information, and hold their government and public officials to account. “The action by NBC and Mr. Lai Mohammed is arbitrary, illegal and unconstitutional, as it is contrary to section 39 of the Nigerian Constitution, Article 9 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights and Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which Nigeria has ratified. Their action is apparently aimed to clampdown on media freedom and Nigerians’ human rights.” They also sought “an order setting aside the fine of N5 million and any other penal sanction unilaterally imposed by the NBC and Mr. Mohammed on Nigeria Info 99.3 FM Lagos, simply for carrying out its professional and constitutional duties.” The suits were  filed on behalf of the plaintiffs by their lawyers Kolawole Oluwadare, Adelanke Aremo and Opeyemi Owolabi. It read in part: “A fine is a criminal sanction and only the court is empowered by the constitution to impose it. Fine imposed by regulatory agencies like NBC without recourse to the courts is illegal, unconstitutional and offends the sacred principles of natural justice and fairness.” “It is the duty of the government to allow the legal and judicial powers of the state to function properly. Imposing any fine whatsoever without due process of law is arbitrary, as it contravenes the principles of nemo judex in causa sua which literally means one cannot be a judge in his own cause and audi alteram partem which literally means no one should be condemned unheard.” “The NBC, being a regulatory body, is not empowered by law to act as the prosecutor and the judge; all at the same time. We humbly urge the court to set aside the unlawful and unconstitutional fines imposed on independent media houses, and to uphold the sanctity of the Nigerian Constitution, Nigerians’ human rights, media freedom, and the rule of law.” 