Emma Njoku The League Management Company (LMC) has certified 13 stadiums across the country as having met the minimum requirements expected to host professional league matches ahead of the 2020/21 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season. Another 11 were recommended for varying degrees of upgrade and repair works before they can be certified. The LMC, in a statement, yesterday, said the development, which forms part of the broader club licensing regime, has been communicated to the clubs in a memo which it sent out on Friday. The memo read in part: “In line with the CAF Circular of July 26, 2020, on stadium infrastructure, among others, which was forwarded to you and the need to meet up with the requirements of high quality television production by our new partners, the LMC has reviewed various reports submitted on the state of our stadia across the country.” Prominent among the approved league venues are the Enyimba International Stadium, Aba; Ahmadu Bello Stadium, Kaduna; Teslim Balogun Stadium, Lagos and Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin City. Also certified to host league games are Okigwe Township Stadium, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium, Bauchi, Gombe Township Stadium, Pantami, Aper Aku Stadium, Makurdi, Muhammad Dikko Stadium, Katsina,  Ilorin Township Stadium, Godswill Akpabio Stadium, Uyo and Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba. While Umuahia Township Stadium and Dutse Township Stadium were recommended for complete remodeling and reconstruction, nine others were listed for repairs varying from relaying of new synthetic grass, regressing, provision of floodlights, television camera platforms and upgrade of changing rooms as well as provision of additional exit and entry gates, among others basic requirements. They are Sani Abacha Stadium, Kano, Agege Stadium, Akure Township Stadium, Warri Township Stadium, New Jos Township Stadium and Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu. Others are Lafia Township Stadium, IfeanyiUbah Stadium, Nnewi and Fufure Stadium, Yola, which will be inspected for certification after construction work has been completed. Clubs whose preferred grounds have been recommended for upgrade would have to choose from any of the certified grounds should they be unable to complete the upgrade before the start of the season. 