Ighomuaye Lucky, Benin The Chief Executive Officer, NPDC/SEPLAT, Mr. Roger Brown, yesterday, said the company has impacted on 45,140 students since the inception of the Pearl Quiz competition in 2012 just as school in Edo State, St. Michael Academy, Benin City, emerged winner of the 2020 edition of the NPDC/SEPLAT Pearl Quiz Competition. He disclosed this during the 2020 edition of the NPDC/SEPLAT Pearl Quiz Competition held in Benin City, the Edo State capital. “This program which we began in 2012, eight years ago, we have consistently every year, undertaken this programme because we have seen the benefits and the results. ” The programme is targeted to improving the educational standards of our host state of Edo and Delta State and it really gives us joy that both states are great partners in this course. “Let me reel out some of the benefits, we have directly impacted in this programme. We have impacted 45,140 students since 2012, and over 35 of them are in the universities. “And two of them have benefited from our scholarship scheme in the university, while one of them has served the internship programme at Seplat”, he said. Mr. Brown who was represented by the General Manager, External Affairs and Communication, Dr. Chioma Nwachuku, said part of what the organization is doing is a fulfilment of the MDG’s goal. “So, it is a course that is very rewarding because you know if you look at the Sustainable Development Goal, this one addresses goal number four, which is education and you know as a nation, education is one part we must play a key role”, he said. While commending the NPDC/SEPLAT for their huge investment in the education of the Nigerian students, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mrs. Stella Maris Imasuen, said there is no place in the world where education is singularly funded by the government. She said based on the premium the current government places on the education of its citizens, has led to the creation of the Edo Basic Education Sector Transformation, (EDOBEST) programmes in which teaching and learning in the primary schools is now technologically driven. Mrs. Imasuen noted that the provision of science and technical education is also very paramount as part of the education policy of the state government and this is of course the reason in revamping the Government Science and Technical College, Benin City which is a world class institution with “state-of-the -arts” equipment At the end of the keenly contested competition, St. Michael Academy, Benin, came up first with the total points of 54, and went home with N7 million cash prize and a N100,000 each for the participating students, MC Nell Academy, Delta State, 2nd, with the total points of 35, and went home with N3m and N75,000 was given to each participating students while GloryLand Academy, Igarra, Edo State, 3rd position with 65 points and was given N1m and the participating students got N50,000
each. 