Jude Chinedu, Enugu The Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Nigeria, (AMEN), Rev Fr Ejike Mbaka, has lashed out at president Muhammadu Buhari over his failure to address the nation’s numerous challenges which resulted in the nationwide #EndSARS protests. Mbaka who was addressing congregants at this year’s All Saint’s Mass in Enugu on Sunday also alleged that several #EndSARS protesters in Enugu State were killed by security agencies and their bodies thrown into the Onyeama Valley. He said that Nigerians were in deep pain and “(President) Buhari, who could have been a solution to this, succeeded in encircling himself with criminals and hooligans, people who do not just tell him lies, but rather, they magnify lies – lies with NAFDAC number – and feed him! “Our leaders seem to be reaping the seeds that they had planted. When somebody that you had not given job comes out to say that he is hungry and angry, it was you that attracted such protest, in the first place. Do you know how many youths that have died due to hunger? “The present government needs to apologize, and they should also apologize for the errors of past governments. It is not a case of #EndSARS or Biafra. God is telling these leaders today, that they are wicked maggots, wicked hooligans and that they should know that this world is not our home. They should understand this fact. “And those who say they do not want to be misunderstood, and so, they do not want to join Fr Mbaka to talk, the fact is that even if you refuse to talk and lock yourself up for 100 years so that that they will not say that you are fighting government, one day, you must still die. Nobody is fighting any government, we are fighting bad governance. He alleged that: “Few days ago, at Miliken Hill, after New Market, (in Enugu), people discovered copses of those that were shot and killed during the recent protest. They dumped people’s corpses there while families of those young men and women continued searching for them. “Our leaders are evil; they need a man under anointing to tell them that if they do not repent, the way that the corpses of our young men were thrown into the valleys of Ugwu Onyeama at the Miliken Hill, one day, their bodies will be there too! “The protest that the youths embarked on recently is what is called life of martyrdom. Some people have to suffer to change the country. If you suffer to bring about change, wellness and godliness to a country, you are on the course of becoming a saint. “That is why I am telling you that Nigeria can never be the same again. Whether you choose to misunderstand me or not is not my worry; that is your headache. Did you expect these young men to keep watching the country being swindled and looted dry by the so-called leaders? “Some of the young men, who are now fast getting old, had started working for the criminals in authority, hooligans in power, since they were very young. I know that by the time some of the leaders listen to this message, they will begin to attack Fr Mbaka. But that is their headache, not mine. One day, enough will be enough. “Parents will spend everything they have and go hungry just to send their children to school and after the children graduate, there would be no jobs for them; then the parent falls sick and there would be no money to send them to the hospital. Can you imagine the kind of anger that would be in such families? That is why you see parents ageing young, many of them suffer stroke, paralysis at age 56/60. “All those jostling for National Assembly positions and others battling to become governors so that they will have immunity, do you think that these young men and women will be watching you just like that? One day, enough will be enough. “If you care, may your name become Nigeria, whether you are a governor or not. But let this message enter your ears, and God is above watching the affairs of wicked leaders. Mbaka also alleged that many youths were being detained in various correctional centres across the state and the country, declaring that it is rather Nigerian leaders that should in such custody (Correctional Centres), “and not those Biafra boys. They should not touch any of those Biafra boys o,” he stressed. When the Police Public Relations Officer in Enugu, Mr Daniel Ndukwe, was contacted over Mbaka’s allegation that several bodies of #EndSARS protesters in Enugu were dumped in Onyeama Valley, Milliken Hill, he denied any knowledge of the allegation. He said: “I don’t know. Fr Mbaka said that? I do not attend his church, so, I wouldn’t know. Thank you”. 