Rita Okoye, Lagos One of Nigeria’s fast-rising talent managers and Davido Music Worldwide’s (DMW) Executive, Sam Phrank, has revealed how he met award-winning performer Davido. Speaking via a telephone interview, the Abia State native also revealed how his brand, 9ja Olofofo, contributed to his budding career. ‘I met Davido through B-Red, his cousin. He hired me to put up his new music on my blog and also needed me to use my influence to get it featured on other platforms. I did a good job and then he recommended me to Davido who needed digital PR for a project he was working on at the time. I was 18 then, and in my first year in university. I always tell people that ‘9ja Olofofo’ was a solid stepping point for me. It brought me closer to the people I needed to get to where I am right now. It was a solid platform that gave me the opportunity to promote and put up contents for corporate brands and many public figures across music, Nollywood and even politics. I began to represent and help direct their digital PR at some point. I vividly remember that I met Davido through my blog too,’ Phrank recalled. On why he moved from being the head of PR for DMW to become Mayorkun’s manager, Sam Phrank shared his work experience: ‘I initially worked with HKN Music, the label that birthed DMW. I handled quite a few stuff for the artists signed under the platform. From distributing their music and video across radio and TV stations to handling the official YouTube channel to planning out releases and strategizing. When DMW came along, Davido moved me to work with him on the new platform. My first task was to handle the release for Mayorkun’s new single ‘Eleko’.’ He continued: ‘After the success of that single, Davido called and asked me to take up management for Mayorkun as I was the most qualified person to handle such a serious project for him at that time. I thought it over for a few days and decided to give it a try and I haven’t regretted till date especially because I’m working directly with someone who has the zeal to take giant strides. The first time I met Mayorkun, it was a special moment. I had seen him during his video shoot for Eleko but we never spoke. Davido called me a few days after the video was edited and ready for release. I got to his house and he called me straight to his bedroom where he played me the video and introduced me to Mayorkun. All he said was “Sam, I Need Him To Blow. Do whatever you can” and it happened. It’s been an amazing experience so far. I have learnt a lot on the job. Mayorkun is very hardworking, extremely hardworking I must say and that reduced the workload for me.’ 