Benjamin Babine, Abuja The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), has again alerted Nigerians about fake websites trying to capitalize on the COVID-19 pandemic to defraud unsuspecting citizens. The Agency made this known through a press statement signed by its Head of Corporate Affairs and External Relations, Mrs Hadiza Umar. NITDA said that it is doing everything possible to shut down the websites and sanction those behind them. NITDA said: “The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), would like to bring to the attention of the general public, especially those in the cyber space, the existence of fake websites in circulation, trying to capitalize on the COVID-19 pandemic to defraud unsuspecting Nigerians. “In NITDA’s efforts at ensuring a safe and secure Nigerian cyberspace, the Agency’s Computer Emergency Readiness and Response Team (CERRT) identified a number of websites using various phishing tricks to attract Internet users. “One of such tricks is misinforming the public that Federal Government has approved the disbursement of funds under a fictitious vote called “Lockdown Funds”. It then requires the user to complete an online form with their personal information including bank details for the payment to be effected. “While NITDA is doing everything possible to shut down the websites identified as well as sanction those behind them, we call on the general public to disregard and report any such websites to the Agency for necessary action.” The Agency went on advising Internet users on how to be cautious saying that users should not to give out their personal information to anyone online; should avoid clicking unknown links and should disregard offers requesting for their bank details. NITDA went on to call on all well-meaning Nigerians to intensify their efforts in supporting the Federal Government in its fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) is a Federal Government Agency under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 