Christopher Oji The Lagos State Police Command has arrested three men over alleged  rape and defilement of teenagers at different locations in Lagos State. While one impregnated his  daughter at the Ikorodu area of the state, the second one was arrested for defiling his 14-year-old daughter and the third allegedly raped his employer’s  twin daughters. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana , who gave a breakdown on how the crimes were committed said: “On June 12, at about 3:pm, Ikorodu Police Station received a complaint from a member of International Female Lawyers ( FIDA), that Eke Kanu, 61 of Ebute road, Igbogbo, Ikorodu, was having unlawful sexual intercourse with his 19- year -old daughter (name withheld) without her consent.” According to Elkana, the survivor stated that her  father started having sexual intercourse with her when she was small and threatened to deal with her if she told  anybody about the unholy act. “She further stated that, when her father discovered that she was pregnant, he took her to a patent medicine store  where she was administered some drugs and injection to abort the pregnancy,” he said. “The survivor was  taken to Mirabel Centre by the Police, for medical attention and forensic examination. The suspect was arrested and taken to State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence  Department( SCIID), Panti ,for discreet investigation and diligent  prosecution” Elkana said: “In a related development, on June 26, the Bariga police station received a report that Chibuike Kalu,33,of Amodu Street, Bariga,  defiled his 14-year-old daughter (name withheld).  The survivor was taken to Mirabel Centre, Ikeja, for medical treatment and forensic  examination. The suspect was arrested and he confessed commission of the crime. He will be charged to Court. “Yet in another development, a Man, 26, was  arrested for defiling his employer’s daughters at Aguda. On June 16, a woman in her mid thirties (name withheld) reported at Aguda Police Station that her salesman, Chinedu Obi, 26 had sexual intercourse with her 12- year- old twin daughters (names withheld) when she left the two girls with him in her house. The suspect was arrested and he confessed to have started having sexual intercourse with the girls in 2019. The Commissioner  of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu has ordered the case to be transferred to Gender Unit, State Headquarters, Ikeja, for discreet investigation and diligent prosecution. The CP advised parents not to trust anyone with their kids, especially female children.” 