Henry Akubuiro Perhaps the most trending news in the literary world this week is the apology tendered by the famous Eton College, London, to the Nigerian writer and publisher, Dilibe Onyeama, author of the 1972 book, Nigger at Eton, predicated on his travails at Eton as a student in 1960s, culminating in his ban from stepping foot on the school again by the school authorities. Onyeama obtained his first School Leaving Certificate from Eton in 1964 against harrowing racist attacks. It was a hell of experience for the Nigerian, as he was taunted on a daily basis. He was asked demeaning questions like: “Why are you black?”, “How many maggots are there in your hair?” and “Does your mother wear a bone in her nose?” Even when he performed well in class, he was derided: “You cheated, didn’t you?” In a publicised apology by the current Headmaster, Simon Anderson, following an article by Adaobi Tricia Nwaubani in relation to the “Black Lives Matter” protests, he said: “We have made significant strides since Onyeama was at Eton but –as millions of people around the world rightly raise their voices in protest against racial discrimination and inequality –we have to have the institutional and personal humility to acknowledge that we still have more to do. “I will invite Onyeama to meet me in order to apologise in person and to make it clear that he will always be welcome at Eton.” But, how genuine was the apology? The Sun Literary Review sought the view of the Enugu-based Onyeama, who said: “I understand that the apology was triggered by the scale of the pressure mounted from the global dimensions of the ‘Black Lives Matter’ protests. It may or may not have been tongue-in-cheek or a face-saving measure. As the case may be, the apology reflected the measure of effectiveness of the protests.” Not everybody would stomach such inhuman treatment Onyeama was subjected at Eton.  “I was able to weather the storm because the heat of adversity from racism was relieved by the privileges which abounded from Eton’s royal status –as well as my own violent reactions, which instilled fear in racists and checked their utterances,” he said. It was even hard to justify why Eton decided to add insult to injury following the release of Nigger at Eton. Onyeama explained: “Eton banned me from visiting the school because of shame from the public support for my book, Nigger at Eton. The ban actually served to reinforce the indictment of racism: had they tendered an apology then, such a good-will gesture would have served to somewhat place doubt on the veracity of my accusations.” So, how does he see Eton’s belated apology? “Eton’s apology is like a non-issue. It should have been directed to The Almighty, because opprobrium against blackness is almost blasphemous in that it infers that He made a genetic blunder in bestowing the colour ‘black’ to the original prototype human generation –which was our ancestors,” he responded. Will he accept the invitation to visit Eton again? The writer replied: “The invitation to visit Eton poses the question –who will pay for it? That is a very important consideration. If the costs involved would be charitable, of course, I will jump to it.” Over to you, Eton! Expectedly, Eton’s apology has also translated to more sales for the book. “The world’s response to my perceived ordeal has been one of rapt intrigue, resulting in brisk sales of my book Nigger at Eton. The book has enjoyed five editions since its publication in 1972, with three wholly revised editions,” said Onyeama. Thanks to the “Black Lives Matter” protests, Eton wouldn’t have bat an eyelid to his age long travails. Onyeama acknowledged: “‘Black Lives Matter’ protests have been a monumental success. It forced white society to wake up to the reality that enough is enough. That was reflected in the host of apologies from white quarters for racial sins.”     