The man is alive. Only that he now lives in the hearts of Nigerians and lovers of football or patriotism as well as haters of iinjustice. Reactions to the piece on the dreadlocked midfielder penultimate Monday continue to pour in. Enjoy some: Dr. Chuka Nwosu in Port Harcourt: Nigeria has nothing for the living, not to talk of a dead footballer. What a shame, it took some 31 years for NFF authorities to remember Sam’s mother, aged 81. Sam’s life insurance policy could not have died with the insurer. Our brothers and sisters in World Igbo Congress, and the world over should take up this fight. Ubongabsi James (Ubajas): I’m broken by this story. When shall our National Anthem and pledge be true? Engr. Aniefiok Essien: Nigeria needs an intelligent craftman to fix it. There are too many Okwarajis. Nigerian labourers live and die in vain. Christian Akpabio: Government needs to reward citizens who put their lives on the line. Jerry Udom: That last line, ‘we could start … in the first place’ is the way to go, The Boss.  Elizabeth Mbim-Orok (Mrs.): Very sad, indeed. Citizen Godswill John: I understand Sport Minister Sunday Dare visited Mama Okwaraji and donated a paltry N50,000 plus semovita, noodles, etc. Are you kidding me? I’m not proud to be a Nigerian. Udememega Ebu: Something tangible MUST be done now that the MOTHER is still alive or they forget it forever. Joseph Ubeh: Your piece is a wake up call. Engr. Iroigak Ikann: Your beautiful but sorrowful piece tells a lot about our country. Who will correct the wrong? Barr. Lagi Innocent: A crying shame! Nseabasi Valentine: You captured every emotion so deeply. Even I who do not do football am so pained. Anthony Gregory: I cried albeit in my heart reading this one injustice. Is patriotism worth anything in Nigeria? Engr. Aniekanabasi Paul: Sometimes, the person you take a bullet for is the one pulling the trigger. Dr. Martin Akpan: Gripping … very touching. God help Nigeria. Aniekeme Emah: The reason most youngsters refuse coming back after studying abroad: the forces that be! Niyi Oladejo: The Boss, the legendary Okwaraji died in vain. Ditto Yekini, whose aged mother is in pains as I speak. Chief Linus Ukpong: You know how to serve it hot and juicy. Pastor Unwana Mbede: Great piece, The Boss. Kenneth Okpete: The Boss, so you know this much about my late brother, Samuel (aka Wasky Pele)? He hailed from Umudioka in Orlu LGA of Imo State. A dynamic midfield maestro! Pastor Michael Obot: The Boss, a sorrowful tale indeed. Perhaps if they were politicians, the story would have been different. Engr. Usoro Peters: The Boss, it is a shame we still are not ready to right the wrongs. Amos Etuk: The legend was one of our finest midfielders. I was at the National Stadium that day and saw him go down forever. Veronikka Otu: Your column triggers too many sad emotions, yet remains reflective. It also carries a bit of anger for a country so frustrating. Uduakabasi Obot: I struggled to hold tears that brewed on and on. I still have hope that there’s light at the end of the tunnel. Barr. Cynthia Ojukwu, Mrs.: Sad! Pastor Mercy Daniel: Can we truly love this  country that offers no electricity, no mortgage, poor healthcare? Life is hard! Austin Udoibit, Esq.: I am NOT convinced the Nigeria of today is worth loving or dying for. Hon. E. Bassey: Never sacrifice your life for Nigeria. Only do your bit. Ndueso Young: I enjoyed reading every bit of it, and learning from the best. Regina Udokpo: Hmm! Nigeria, really ‘a country!’ Sebastian Ekpenyong: The Boss, little wonder no one is committed to Nigeria. No matter your sacrifice, once you cease to exist, everyone forgets. Let’s check our attitude to fallen heroes. Sunday Umanah (Tusi): Sympathetic. Only God can help Nigeria. Precious Miracle Peters: This is really sad, The Boss. The way you told the story got me crying. Macaulay Udom: You have left us with our own reflections as Nigerians in Nigeria. Donatus Okon (Associate Professor): Thank you for your incisive and well articulated entry. It’s highly commendable. You should think of coming over to where we are for more research. Emem Etto: My favourite columnist. I learned something new today, as always. Utibe Eniang: Really heartbreaking piece. I was in Primary 6 then and watched the match live on NTA. In months, we started singing in school: “Sam Okwaraji, professional, he came to play for Nigeria. As he was playing, he fell and died. That was the end of his life. Sam Okwarajiiiii soccer the ball ooo into the net. Sam Okwarajiiii may your soul rest oo in perfect peace (2x).” Coach Kike Davids: Lovely piece, The Boss. Keep doing it. Pastor Ben Effiong: This is another masterpiece,, sir. It brings tears to the eyes. Never again must such history repeat itself. Nsikak Andrew: The Boss, always a delight. Uwem Akpan, Ph.D.: Your fine but emotion-laden article, like the Mighty George presentation you described, is tears-provoking. But it serves to remind the nation of the unfinished business it has with Okwaraji and other icons who served the country faithfully and selflessly. Chief Nkereuwem Akpan, Esq.: Truly enlightening yet humbling. Not good for budding patriots. How can we produce patriots with this sort of quagmire? Annam Ikoh: Nice piece, and thought-provoking. Prof. Robert Oghenedoro Dode: Thoughtful insight as always. Pastor Solomon Essien: My Leader, today’s Talking Nonsense not only breaks my heart, it also makes it bleed! Ededet Nyong: Though barely eight at the time, I remember vividly the event on TV. Many thanks, The Boss, for the illuminating reminder. I pray the authorities salvage the mum and family. Itoro Akpama (Mrs.): Now, this made me cry! Chris Inwang, Ph.D: You distracted me but I enjoyed the read all the way down. Excellent writing; splendid. I hope you write another soon. George Iniabasi Essien (Mighty George): Thanks for the overwhelming reference, The Boss. This piece is as much about me as it is about Okwaraji. Sad, though. Ubong Ekefre: I recall vividly when Okwaraji fell down in the course of the match. The referee went to him. There was silence everywhere. His passage still feels like yesterday. On the question of patriotism, hmm, Nigeria is not worth dying for! Alu Azege (Mrs.): May Sam’s soul rest in peace. But, is this the same George Essien that was on Kapital FM? (Editor’s comment: yes, please) Pastor Princewill Isangadighi: With such stories, you can’t help but cry for Nigeria. Anyone who dies for Nigeria has died in vain! Akaninyene Michael Essien: The Boss, I also listened to ‘the Judge of the Judges’ when he dished out the historical exploits of the late midfield general. One day, his good works will certainly speak for generations unborn. Rest on, legendary Sam Okwaraji. Next Monday: Akwa Ibom people score Udom’s fifth year as governor 