Priscilla Ediare, Ado-Ekiti Ekiti State Deputy Governor Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi has congratulated members of the 6th House of Assembly on their first anniversary in office. Egbeyemi described the 6th Assembly led by the Speaker, Rt Hon Funminiyi Afuye, as a progressive, responsible, responsive, people-oriented parliament that had made the difference within a short time of one year. The deputy governor in a statement on Monday by his Special Assistant (Media), Odunayo Ogunmola, commended the lawmakers in the 6th Assembly for passing a total number of 19 bills into law within the first year of their assumption of office. According to him, the 6th Assembly is a partner in progress with the Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, in taking Ekiti to a higher pedestal in the comity of States and a model of legislature’s importance in consolidating representative democracy. He noted that the 6th Assembly, had in the last one year, helped in using their constitutional functions of lawmaking and their oversight functions to translate the five pillars of the Fayemi administration into reality. Describing members of the 6th Assembly as ‘worthy representatives of their constituents,’ Egbeyemi lauded the legislators for their industry in passing bills that have made the difference in the lives of the people. He identified the bills already assented to by the Governor to include Fiscal Responsibility Law Gender-Based Violence (Prohibition) Law, Ekiti State Security Network Agency (Amotekun) Law, Transition Law to stop abandonment of projects initiated by previous administrations and Compulsory Treatment, Ekiti State Social Protection Law and Care for Child Victims of Sexual Violence Law Egbeyemi commended the 6th Assembly for sustaining a harmonious working relationship with the other arms of government, especially the executive to seamlessly drive the wheel of governance in the exercise of the mandate given by the people. While noting that he was not surprised by the efficiency and diligence of the lawmakers in churning out life-changing laws, Egbeyemi said the Assembly is peopled by members who are experienced and had excelled in various fields of human endeavours before their election. Egbeyemi urged the lawmakers not to relent in cooperating with Governor Fayemi to entrench good governance for the benefit of the people of the state. He prayed that the members of the 6th Assembly be granted more wisdom in the remaining three legislative sessions for more results-oriented impact. 