TONY JOHN, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has announced the commencement of the construction of a fourth flyover at GRA junction, Aba road, Port Harcourt. Governor Wike also disclosed that the state government would expand the Rumuola flyover to accommodate additional vehicular traffic. He stated that the new projects would complement Rebisi, Rumuogba and Okoro-nu-Odo flyover projects, which have reached advanced stages of completion. Wike disclosed this yesterday, while addressing journalists during an inspection tour of projects executed by Julius Berger Nigeria Plc in Port Harcourt and Obio/Akpor Local Government Areas of the state. Governor Wike who was accompanied by the Managing Director of Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, Lars Richter, also inspected the urban renewal programme of his administration at both the Old and New Government Reservation Areas. He noted that work would soon be completed in most of the ongoing projects and promised to dualize Mummy B road to Stadium road to ease the flow of traffic in the city. The governor stated that his decision to embark on projects even at a time the state government is fighting COVID-19, was because  people would still need basic infrastructure to improve their lives after the pandemic. Governor Wike debunked the impression that  only Julius Berger Nigeria  Plc are executing projects in the state, pointing out that there are other notable indigenous contractors  working for the state government. According to the governor, some of the indigenous companies executing the state government projects  included, Lubrik Construction Company Limited, Wellman and Wellington Construction Company Limited, VKF Construction Company and Roadmap Construction Company. He expressed satisfaction with the level of work done at  the various projects sites in the state and said the projects would be delivered within schedule. The governor said that his administration would invest in building standard hospitals to discourage medical tourism. Also speaking, the Managing Director of Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, Richter, assured the  governor that the company would deliver the three flyover projects as promised during the signing of the contract. He commended the  governor for his good management of COVID-19, which has also impacted positively on the level of work done by his company. 