Uche Usim, Abuja Amid fears of Nigeria’s high debt exposure to China, the Debt Management Office on Thursday reassured that there was nothing to panic about as the loans were concessional with interest rates of 2.50% per annum, tenor of 20 years and a moratorium of seven years. It added that the communist country was not a major source of funding for the Federal Government, despite the fact that total borrowing from China, as at March 31, 2020, stood at $3.121 billion or N1,126.68 trillion using N361/$1 conversion template. It ruled out the possibility of China taking possession of the projects financed by them if Nigeria defaults in servicing the loan. The DMO emphasized that Nigeria explicitly provides for debt service on its external and domestic debt in its annual budgets, adding that a number of the projects being (and to be) financed by the loans are either revenue generating or have the potential to generate revenue. The DMO added that the $3.121 billion Chinese debt represents only 3.94% of Nigeria’s total public debt of $79.303 billion (N28,628.49 trillion at USD/N361) as at March 31, 2020. DMO said: “Similarly, in terms of external sources of funds, loans from China accounted for 11.28% of the external debt stock of $27.67 billion at the same date. “These data, show that China is not a major source of funding for the Nigerian Government. The terms of the loans are compliant with the provisions of Section 41 (1a) of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2007. In addition, the low interest rate reduces the interest cost to government while the long tenor enables the repayment of the principal sum of the loans over many years. “These two benefits, make the provisions for debt service in the annual budget lower than they would otherwise have been if the loans were on commercial terms”. The DMO further explained that the $3.121 billion Chinese loans are project-tied facility. It listed the 11 projects as; Nigerian Railway Modernization Project (Idu-Kaduna section), Abuja Light Rail Project, Nigerian Four Airport Terminals Expansion Project, (Abuja, Kano, Lagos and Port Harcourt), Nigerian Railway Modernization Project (Lagos-Ibadan section) and Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Abuja – Keffi- Makurdi Road Project. It noted that the impact of these Loans is not only evident but visible. For instance, the Idu – Kaduna rail line has become a major source of transportation between Abuja and Kaduna. Also, the new International Airport in Abuja, has improved air transportation for the populace, while the Lagos – Ibadan rail line when completed, will ease traffic on the busy Lagos -Ibadan Expressway. “The projects also have the added benefits of job creation, not only by themselves but through direct and indirect service providers, a number of which are Small and Medium Enterprises. “It is widely accepted that investment in infrastructure is one of the most effective tools for countries to achieve economic growth and development. Using Loans from China to finance infrastructure is thus in alignment with this position. “The principal process and requirements for borrowing by the Government are expressly stated in the Debt Management Office Establishment (ETC) Act, 2003 (DMO Act) and theFiscal Responsibility Act, 2007. Section 21 (1) of the DMO Act, “No External loan shall be approved or obtained by the Minister unless its terms and conditions shall have been laid before the National Assembly and approved by its resolution” and Section 41 (1a) of the FRA, “Government at all tiers shall only borrow for capital expenditure and human development, provided that, such borrowing shall be on concessional terms with low interest rate and with a reasonable long amortization period subject to the approval of the appropriate legislative body where necessary”, are instructive in this regard. “The Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning works with the MDAs under whose portfolio a proposed loan falls and also with the DMO. Thereafter, the approval of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) is sought. It is only after the approval by FEC that His Excellency requests for the approval of the National Assembly as required by Section 41 of the Fiscal responsibility Act, 2007. More importantly, it is only after the approval of NASS that the Loans are taken and Nigeria begins to drawdown on the Loans. “The Loan Agreements are reviewed by legal officers of the Federal Ministry of Justice and the Legal Opinion of the Honourable Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice is obtained before any External Loan Agreement is signed”, the DMO added. 