Christian Agadibe The Nigerian  Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has certified  Eastwing Aviation Training School in Enugu to be an  Approved Training Organisation  as part of its efforts to develop southeast aviation sector. The Eastwing Aviation training school, which is sited at Emene, is the first private aviation school in the south East Nigeria Reacting to the approval, citizens of the state urged the south East  state governors  to take advantage of the new development by giving  scholarship to their people  to measure up the scheme of employment in the aviation sector. In a  statement made available to the press, the organisation said: “The essence of taking the school to the door step of South Easters  is because many people there are lagging behind in the aviation industry” . As a result, the school will help create awareness about the aviation industry and expose citizens to job opportunities. According to the statement, the opening of the school is on the quest to  save citizens the cost of travelling far and wide for aviation studies. “Since they offer similar things, there will be no need to travel overseas for the same type of studies they can easily get here in Nigeria thereby saving them the trouble of cost challenges and other related issues,” it noted. The statement read thus: “We have successfully collaboration with  EASA approved training organisation  organized seven sessions of  European Aviation Safety  Agency (EASA) Part 66  Examination in Nigeria with more that 500 exams written by candidates from Nigeria, Ghana, Cameroon, Ethiopia and India. This is the first time  people are having the opportunity to write such Aircraft Maintenance Engineering license exams in Nigeria “Since 2018 we brought it to Nigeria, we’ve had series of calls from candidates  from many African countries that wants explore the opportunity due to their previous experiences visiting other countries” Meanwhile, the school, which has “We offer world-class training standards which will make participants compete favorably with their counterparts in any aviation school both within and outside the country.” It added that the school exposes them to the aviation market and  license preparatory  that enables the write NCAA,  EASA and other Authorities’ examinations  excellently. Our training covers both Engineering, operational and other courses for ground staff. As disclosed in the release, this is all in their bid to meet up with its world-class standards. “Eastwing has partnered a school in the UK, USA to enable it train the  students up to date materials. 