With the status and the influence he wields in the society, only cynics would make an attempt to underrate the personality of upwardly mobile lawyer, Dr. Olukayode Abraham Ajulo. This is because his towering image readily dwarfs any untoward mischief anyone might want to play with it. It is however important to note that the wide acceptance the amiable dude enjoys did not just fall on his laps, but as a result of deliberate qualities he’s held unto that include hard work, consistency, honesty, humility and undoubtedly, the grace of God. Without being immodest, Ajulo, the former Board Chairman of Ondo State Radiovision Corporation, boasts of a profile that is no doubt intimidating. As a Barrister-at-law, his exploits cannot be put aside with a wave of the hand as he’s known to have handled briefs that only attest to his height and validate his professionalism. It is in the same way he’s made innovations that are embraced by the law profession, that is aside being a voice for the voiceless in the society as a right activist. As a partisan politician, Ajulo also sure can hold his own any day, even as a former senatorial candidate and one time National Secretary of Labour Party. While many wonder what the secret of his success is, Ajulo’s ability to be adamantly distracted has been discovered to be a factor among his strengths. As the next governorship election in Ondo State brews, based on the influence he wields as a notable and popular politician whose image is not tainted but eminently qualified, Ajulo has had to cope with calls, political visits and all from various quarters to lure him into the contest. The factor of his involvement with Buhari campaign organization, “Forward with Buhari”, which he was a founding member and the executive secretary, is also regarded as an edge such that he’s being persuaded and endorsed by friends and associates with deep pockets promising to prosecute such projects. However, in as many times as this amiable gentleman has been touted to be gunning for elective office or the other, he has not failed to echo it that he’s committed to make his footprint on the sand of time, as far as the legal profession is concerned, and by extension make greater impact as a humanitarian. 