Ngozi Nwoke, Lagos Three Crowns Milk has partnered with four NGOs to give relief packages of quality dairy nutrition to 11,000 families in Lagos, Ibadan and Ekiti in supporting the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. In Lagos, Three Crowns partnered with Lagos Food Bank to cater to 3,944 families, and Tahara Collective to cater to 1,000 families. In Ibadan, Oyo state, the brand partnered with Made Great by God Foundation to cater to 3,717 families. In Ekiti State, Bayo Omoboriowo Foundation is Three Crowns’ partner and it catered for 2,490 families with the brand’s nourishing items. Speaking on this charity gesture, the Marketing Manager, Three Crowns, Omolara Banjoko, said that the brand was moved to ease the nutrition challenges of the most vulnerable in these communities, which the COVID-19 global pandemic has thrown at them. She said: ‘Three Crowns strongly believes that eating right, feeding well and living healthy is a vital start in the fight against the pandemic. The Three Crowns fitness campaign, also helped Nigerians to keep fit during the lock down, through a weekly live fitness and cardio session on the brand’s Instagram handle @3crownsMilk. This was hosted by a renowned fitness coach, Shedams. ‘The live interactive sessions on Instagram addresses challenges on fitness, diet, mental health and it offers tips on how to make money during the lock down and afterwards. Three Crowns milk is a leading Nigerian brand from the stable of FrieslandCampina WAMCO, Nigeria’s largest dairy company for more than 60 years. The Company believes that milk is an essential nutrient for every individual. As Nigeria’s leading low cholesterol milk brand, Three Crowns has nourished mothers and their families for more than 30 years with essential vitamins and minerals that support their well-being. ‘Three Crowns is the first milk brand to show care for mothers and acknowledge the important role they play in the family. The brand recognizes that when mothers as primary care givers are themselves taken care of, this directly and positively impacts the care they give to their families. The brand has thus given itself the patriotic task of encouraging women to eat and live healthy, thereby making the family happy.’ Banjoko stated that the Lagos Food Bank as an NGO is committed to fighting malnutrition and hunger with a focus on pregnant women, infants, and students in under-served communities, adding that Tahara Collective focuses on the community, economic empowerment, religious education, social support and advocacy. ‘Made Great by God Foundation and the Bayo Omoboriowo Foundation are propelled by an unwavering desire to continually seek improvements in the well-being of their immediate environments and the society at large. This why they are committed to fighting malnutrition and hunger in pregnant women, infants and students in underserved communities,’ she noted. 