Priscilla Ediare, Ado-Ekiti A 45-year-old Carpenter, Mr. Olufalayi Obadare, was reportedly beaten to death, on Wednesday, by angry mob at Olujoda Area of Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital. Eyewitness confirmed that the father of three, was allegedly killed around 5pm when some youths in the area, who suspected him for a robber descended on the deceased for roaming the streets in a suspicious manner. The late Obadare, who was resident with his family at llawe road, Ado- Ekiti, was allegedly clubbed and attacked with other deadly weapons making him to pass into a state of coma before finally giving up the ghost. Investigation revealed that the Olujoda area has been under consistent attack by robbers in recent time, which must have prompted the youths to take such a far reaching action. Narrating how the incident occurred, the deceased’s wife, Yemi, said her husband told her of a contract he just secured at Olujoda area, lamenting that it was wrong for the youths to have mistaken him for a robber without cogent reason. The bereaved bemoaned the harrowing death of her husband and demanded for justice for the country to be at peace. “My husband told me that he was going to Olujoda to get a contract. I was greatly surprised when I heard he was killed because of suspicion that he was wandering around. “The question to ask is that, did they see any dangerous weapon on him? Why couldn’t they take him to the person who contracted him for the job to know his true identity? This was a gross injustice and the perpetrators must be brought to book.” One of the deceased’s relatives Mrs.Omowumi ldowu, said she was shocked when notified that her brother, who suffered a slight malaria few days back, had been killed “When I was told, I initially had the impression that he died of the ailment he complained about few days back, but I was shocked to hear that he was beaten to death by some people. “When we spoke on phone, he informed me that he was going to secure a job at Olujoda area on the fateful day without knowing that it would be his end.” She called on the police command to get into the root of the matter and bring the perpetrators to justice. The Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, Mr. Sunday Abutu, when contacted, said investigations have commenced into the matter. Abutu said the remains of the deceased had been deposited in the morgue, while some people have been apprehended by police, in connection with the incident. 