Tony Osauzo, Benin The Edo State Government has announced two new deaths from COVID-19 complications and the discharge of 16 more patients who tested negative for the virus. The state also recorded 28 new cases of the virus with 13 confirmed at the Irrua Specialist Hospital (ISTH) laboratory and 15 at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) laboratory. With the new figures, Edo has now recorded a total of 27 COVID-19 related deaths, 130 discharged persons, 1,741 line-listed contacts, 4,217 suspected cases and 518 confirmed cases. The state governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, who disclosed this in a statement, reassured that the state government will continue to intensify efforts aimed at curtailing the spread of the virus and ensuring the health and safety of Edo people. He, however, urged residents to be cautious and abide by all health and safety precautions to protect all citizens, especially the elderly, noting that the aged are the most endangered by the pandemic. ‘We have discharged 16 more COVID-19 patients from our isolation facilities. This brings the total number of recoveries in the state to 130. We call on all residents to abide by health and safety precautions to protect our elderly, who are most endangered this period. Stay safe,’ Obaseki said. The state’s Commissioner for Health, Dr Patrick Okundia, said that the Obaseki administration has undertaken serious measures to contain the pandemic, adding that the state’s surveillance pillar has revved up efforts at contact tracing, line-listing and monitoring of contacts of the confirmed cases across all local government areas. The commissioner added: ‘While the government steps up efforts at containing the pandemic, we urge you to comply with all government directives aimed at ensuring the health and safety of all residents. ‘Stay at home and observe social distancing and other precautionary measures against the spread of the disease, including regular hand-washing with soap under running water, and use alcohol-based hand sanitisers. Cover your mouth and nose properly when sneezing and/or coughing. Also, do well to report anyone with overseas travel history.’ 