Unity Bank Plc has forged a collaborative partnership with Dynamiss, a digital learning solutions provider, to provide low-interest credits to schools to boost access to digital learning resources. Under the partnership, a full e-learning package, comprising microsoft school portal, discounted Airtel data and free contents and devices powered by Dynamiss will be supported with financing from Unity Bank to enable schools acquire the robust Learning Management System (LMS) at affordable rates. The Dynamiss’ LMS has been developed by the largest learning platform provider in the UK in collaboration with Microsoft Corporation. The provision of LMS is coming at a time when Nigeria grapples with a global pandemic, making it imperative for a digital learning system that combines the advantage of remote learning and rich modern curriculum. Speaking at a webinar with the theme: “Affordable Digitalisation Conference 2020, Shaping the Future of Education” to unveil the initiative recently, the bank’s Head, Personal and SME Banking, Opeyemi Ojesina, said: “Unity Bank is supporting the initiative in order to empower and prepare the next generation for a competitive future defined by cutting edge technology. “The e-learning market is estimated to hit over $600 billion by 2025, therefore, partnering with Dynamiss to drive this initiative provides a huge opportunity for everyone interested in the education sector. “On our part, we are committed to providing low interest credit to as many schools that sign up to the Dynamiss LMS across the country. This is in addition to making available to the schools, cost-effective account products suitable and tailored for the schools and their employees.” Ojesina added: “Beyond our loan products, which are tailored to assist schools grow their businesses effectively, we also offer rich bouquet that includes, but not limited to asset finance and working capital. This is even as we train and equip schools with the necessary financial tools for success.” With the fear of the spread of COVID-19 compelling schools to remain shut, it is believed that the adoption of the Dynamiss LMS will help students return to classrooms and mitigate the impact of the loss of learning on students at this period. The LMS also comes with other incredible capabilities such as access to over one million free international and local contents and the ability to download the curriculum from the portal and use offline. This is even as Dynamiss offers a free subscription to all schools that come onboard before September. 