Mr Ebubeagu Ekenulo, a renowned activist in the South East, says the landmark achievements recorded by President Muhammadu Buhari is attracting scores of opposition members and their leaders to the ruling All Progressives Congress APC). Ekenulo made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Tuesday. According to him, the opposition being led in the country by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), are excited with the tremendous development strides achieved by Buhari amidst security challenges, economic recession and COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. He described the defection of Chief Charles Ezekwem, former PDP chairman in Imo together with other PDP stakeholders to the APC, as a testimony of the President’s APC-led administration’s landmark achievements. Ekenulo, who described Ezekwem as an astute administrator and visionary politician, said his defection was informed by his passion for good leadership. The activist explained that Ezekwem was moved by the track records of the Buhari-led APC at both the national and state levels. “Charles Babatunde Ezekwem is not a mole but a patriot and selfless politician with bold heart to return Nigeria and Imo to the path of progress. “He defected to APC with a large chunk of Imo PDP state and many local government executive members, and multitude of stakeholders to show solidarity to President Buhari and Chief Hope Uzodimma,” he said. Ekunulo called on the remaining PDP members in Imo to support the APC led administration in the state to restore the lost glory of the state and Nigeria “that was battered by PDP’s failed leadership”. According to him, Ezekwem left PDP for the greater good of Imo in spite of the fact that he built the party all alone. Ekenulo, who expressed optimism of a future prosperous Imo, called on politicians to shun campaigns of calumny and discord but close ranks for a prosperous country. NAN recalls that Ezekwem, immediate past Imo PDP chairman, resigned from the party in January 2020, ahead of the expiration of his tenure in August, this year. (NAN) 