Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. hosted its first-ever Galaxy Unpacked virtual event live-streamed from Korea to introduce a new suite of power devices. Five devices were revealed during the event that seamlessly integrate to empower consumers navigating a rapidly changing world: Galaxy Note20 and Galaxy Note20 Ultra, the most powerful Note series yet; Galaxy Z Fold2, the next generation foldable smartphone with enhanced refinements, Galaxy Buds Live, stylish and ergonomic ear buds with amazing sound quality; Tab S7 and S7+, versatile tablets for productivity and creativity; Galaxy Watch3, a premium smart watch along with advanced health features. “Never before have we relied on technology like we are today. It’s how we are staying connected as we navigate the extraordinary challenges faced around the world,” said Mr Caden Yu, Managing Director, Samsung Nigeria. The Note series introduces new Mystic colors – soft neutral tones that transcend changing trends with a brand new, textured haze effect that cuts down on fingerprints and smudges. Galaxy Note20 Ultra in Mystic Bronze, Mystic Black, Mystic White while Note20 is available in Mystic Bronze, Mystic Green, Mystic Gray. Some of the highlight of Note 20 series that embraces the new normal.  Power to work An advanced S Pen: The enhanced S Pen offers the ultimate writing experience so you can capture your ideas whenever inspiration strikes. It gives you more accuracy and responsiveness delivering text similar to pen on paper. The S Pen’s action makes touch-less navigation of your device possible – like returning to the home screen or taking a screenshot – as simple as a flick of the wrist. More flexible, useful Samsung Notes app experience Samsung Notes app features auto-save and syncing capabilities, so lost work becomes a thing of the past and you can pick up right where you left off as you move from device to device. Samsung Notes easily straightens your messy handwriting into legible penmanship. Giving feedback is also easier now that you can annotate and highlight PDFs in Samsung Notes app. Record audio as you jot down notes, and just tap a word in your notes to go to that moment in the recording. And keep it all organized with a new, intuitive folder management that makes everything easier to find. Work smarter across devices: Microsoft’s Your Phone app with Link to Windows integration now enables you to easily access your mobile apps directly from your Windows 10 PC without disrupting your flow. It’s simple and convenient to send messages, manage notifications, sync photos and make and receive calls all from your Windows PC. Power to play With 21:9 aspect ratio and 24fps recording, the Galaxy Note20 series’ 8K camera now gives you access to ultra-high resolution and a professional quality video experience. Use powerful Pro Video mode with pro-grade focus, audio, exposure, zoom speed control, and 120 fps video at FHD for cinematic-style videos. You can also control audio sources on the Galaxy Note20 series, adjusting gain and selecting between onboard mics or external sources, so the sound you want comes through clearly. Paired with Galaxy Buds Live, for example, you can record crystal-clear audio while minimizing noise in the background. Master multitasking with advanced Samsung DeX For the first time with Samsung DeX, wirelessly connect the Galaxy Note20 series to a Smart TV when you need a bigger screen. Manage two screens simultaneously so you can text with your friends on the Galaxy Note20 series while watching a video in a Smart TV. Samsung devices and services are designed to work together effortlessly, elevating not only your work and play, but everything that’s important to you. Pre-order The Note20 series would be available for pre-order from August 14 for two weeks with limited free buds live for early adopters. You can Pre order at any authorized Samsung Store, Online or with Telcos. 