A strategic meeting of Oguta leaders of thought was recently convened at Oguta in Oguta Local Government, Imo State. It was aimed at widening the acceptability of Governor Hope Uzodimma in the community and strengthening the All Progressives Congress (APC). The convener, Chief Sam Oduh Ezediaro, told the leaders and elders: “It is no longer fashionable to flow with the opposition. Oguta must realign politically in tandem with emerging realities and join progressive communities to flow with the centre in the interest of the community and future generations.” He urged the Ogene of Oguta (title of the eldest man in Oguta), village heads, cabinet chiefs, elders and leaders of the community including youth/women to work together as a progressive family “to give Oguta a new lease of life.” Facilitator of the meeting, Bishop Udo Azogu, who is also the governor’s peace emissary in Oguta LGA, said he and Ezediaro decided to mobilise Oguta people to inject a new blood into APC, Oguta community and give unqualified support to Uzodimma and President Muhammadu Buhari despite the huge failure APC recorded in the community during the 2019 general elections. He told leaders and elders: that APC, Oguta “Under Governor Uzodimma, Oguta will grow to great heights with access to democratic deliverables from relevant development agencies. Uzodimma is the first governor to work towards recovering oil wells in Imo State, which are under the control of Rivers State Government resulting in substantial increase in revenue generation for both the state and the community, being the biggest oil producing community in the state. Representatives of various Oguta community including Ogbuagu, Oshiji, Damanze, the clergy, youth and women expressed support for the present administration of Uzodimma in delivering the goods. The Ogene of Oguta, Okoroafor Odogwu, who is the leader of all the 27 village heads of Oguta, assured the governor of the unflinching resolve of the community to give his administration the needed support to deliver He pleaded with the governor to carry the community along in the scheme of things. However, some personalities who spoke during the meeting expressed deep reservations over the strained relations between the three senior appointees of the state government from the community. He urged the convener of the meeting to bring them together “so that they can function as one united family and consolidate the support base for APC and the governor in the community.” 