From Obinna Odogwu, Awka Traditional ruler of Alor community in Idemili South Local Government Area of Anambra State, Igwe MacAnthony Elibe Okonkwo, has apologized to the state governor, Chief Willie Obiano, and the Traditional Rulers’ Council for violating certain rules guiding the operation of monarchs in the state. Okonkwo was among the 12 traditional rulers suspended for one year by the state government for travelling to Abuja reportedly with Prince Arthur Eze, an international oil magnate, to see President Muhammadu Buhari allegedly without permission. Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftaincy and Community Affairs, Greg Obi, in a circular he signed, said that the monarchs were suspended because they travelled outside the state without approval by the government. But at a press conference in his palace, the Alor monarch admitted his wrong doing and tendered an “unreserved apology” to the state government, the Traditional Rulers’ Council, members of his cabinet and his subjects. “It was a serious slip on my part not to have informed the government about the trip to Abuja before embarking on it. I therefore tender an unreserved apology”, the monarch said. On the trending video where he was seen alongside some of his embattled colleagues counting some money, Igwe Okonkwo dispelled the rumour that he was induced with money and gifts before agreeing to accompany Prince Eze to see President Buhari. He said that the money he was seen counting was meant for his driver and other aides for their upkeep and wondered how somebody of his status who had made money before becoming a king would be accused of taking bribe. “How can they call it bribe? What kind of bribe is that? That is total fallacy? I was counting out money for my driver and other aides for fuel and their welfare. “I have never taken any bribes in my life from anybody. But if I wish to do, you have to pack Ghana-Must-Go bags of dollars up to 10 or 20, if I receive them, then you will be talking about bribe.” “Secondly, Ndi Igwe do not have constitutional right to remove the governor or do anything to him. We are not lawmakers who have such constitutional rights. “Are you talking about a man who has shared up to 150 Keke NAPEP in his community of taking bribes? Are you talking about a man who gives out up to five SUV Jeeps to his subjects every year? “Are you talking of a man that builds houses for the poor? Are you talking about a man that 72 students enjoy his scholarship in Alor community? Alor people can testify to that. 