Commissioner of Police, Mobile Police (MOPOL), Force Headquarters, Abuja, Mr. Yunuss Mohammed Akeera, has said more than 77 assistant commissioners of police and squadron commanders will be trained and re-trained: “To re-awaken the force to confront security challenges facing the country at the moment. “We are going to carry out the exercise at the three police training institutions. We have Mobile Police Training College, Gwoza, Borno State, Mobile Police Training College, Ila-Orangun, Osun State and Mobile Police Training Centre, Ende Hill, Nasarawa State. “My vision and mission for MOPOL are training, retraining and visitation to all Police Mobile Force (PMF) nationwide for re-awakening and for the PMF to return to its lost glory. The security challenges facing the country at the moment are having tolls on our policing strategy and over-stretching our response mechanism. Most of our strategies and approaches need review for more effectiveness to counter and combat this threat to national security. “This is the time to apply IGP Mohammed Adamu’s community policing and professionalism to enable us have good relationship with the public and flush out criminals from our environment. “I will embark on familiarisation tour to all the PMF formations. I will address them on the value of PMF and encourage officers and men for optimal performance. The IGP enjoins PMF personnel to be more courteous and civil to members of the public, respect rule of engagement as captured in FO237, discipline, ethnics of the job, deployment, shun illegal duties to curtail lose of life. “The duties of the PMF are suppression of riots and other serious disturbances; combating violent crimes and insurgency; high-profile escorts; internal security; guard of multi-national economic interest; guard of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) facilities and diplomatic protection. “I have warned officers to shun corruption. We will deal with officers involved in violation of Police Act and Regulation, which is our guide. They should stop illegal duties without proper notification of their superior officers. The IGP has zero tolerance for corruption and they should be professional in the discharge of their duties. “Officers should prevent extra-judicial killings. It has brought embarrassment to the Nigeria Police. The IGP has made it a duty that every officer must be aggressive against misuse of firearms. He has organised seminars and workshops to caution officers when on duty. I have advised them to be disciplined when on duty and professionalism should be carried out in any operation in the interest of the force.” 