Benjamin Babine, Abuja The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has disclosed that it will be commence its awarding of N9m research grants to three Nigerian startups which will through the use of digital solutions contain the impact of COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The Commission disclosed that the selection of the three companies followed a careful evaluation and screening out of over 280 entries from digital innovation Startups and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) all over the country. NCC, which made this known in a statement, extended invitations to operators and other industry stakeholders to participate virtually in the Grant/Prize Award ceremony, which holds in the Conference Room of the Commission at 11:00 am on Tuesday, September 1. The statement reads: ‘The health and economic crisis triggered by the novel COVID-19 Pandemic had challenged the global ICT community to search for digital solutions to address and contain the spread of the virus. Such solutions would allow citizens and businesses to rein in the virus and continue their activities with limited disruptions. ‘As a response, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) instituted a programme to award research grants to support Startups and Digital SME’s with adaptable innovative digital solutions that could address present and future impacts of pandemic and epidemic-prone diseases in Nigeria. ‘Under the programme, the Commission will award N9 Million research grants to three Nigerian startups with the most innovative digital solutions for containing pandemics and epidemics in the country in the thematic areas of health, community, productivity, economy and transportation. The highlights of the ceremony include pitching/demonstration of the top three solutions by the startups, announcement of the winners and presentation of research prizes. ‘The Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, will give a keynote address and present prizes to the top three startups with the most promising solutions. ‘He will be supported by the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of the NCC, Professor Adeolu Akande and the Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive Office, Professor Umar Garba Danbatta with other members of the Board of Commissioners of NCC in attendance. 