Moses Akaigwe CFAO Motors, sole distributor of Suzuki vehicles in Nigeria, has unveiled a special COVID-19 business support package for Suzuki models to all corporate organisations and other prospective buyers in all parts of the country. Giving insight into the offer, the general manager of Suzuki by CFAO, Mrs. Aissatou Diouf, said, “This package which is aimed at providing succour to corporate organisations because of the negative effect on their businesses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, will offer N1m discount for some models of Suzuki vehicles between August 15 and September 30.” With this offer, corporate organisations and other intending buyers are entitled to the N1m discount when they purchase any of these Suzuki models: Alto, Dzire or Ciaz, within the given period. All three models are suitable for corporate organisations as official vehicles for executives or pool cars. The Suzuki Ciaz is a 1.5 litre engine, luxury sized sedan; the Suzuki Dzire is a medium sized sedan with a 1.2 litre engine displacement, while the Alto is a small smart city car. Since CFAO Motors secured the exclusive franchise for Suzuki vehicles in the country last year, it has unveiled a couple of overseas territories and in Asia. CFAO employs more than 15,000 people. CFAO is a subsidiary of the Toyota Tsusho Group (Japan). In Nigeria, CFAO has mouth-watering packages and incentives for sales and after-sales. Key among the packages is the trade-in option which gives owners of vehicles the opportunity to trade in any brand of vehicle for a brand new Suzuki vehicle. CFAO Motors is also partnering with major Nigerian banks to offer finance scheme. The company is also offering a water-tight service package which guarantees quality servicing, genuine spare parts as well as after-sales pick-up and drop off service in Lagos. Aside the Alto, Dzire and Ciaz, CFAO Motors also sells other reliable Suzuki models like the Jimny, Vitara, Swift, Baleno and the Ertiga. All Suzuki models are sold with a three- year /100,000-kilometre warranty, and CFAO Motors offers test-drives to prospect customers to experience the Suzuki range. Suzuki is a Japanese auto brand which has been in existence for over 65 years and sold in different countries A key player in specialised distribution in Africa and the French overseas territories, CFAO is a partner of choice for major international brands. The Group is a market leader in automotive and pharmaceutical distribution and continues to grow in consumer goods, new technology, and energy solutions, in addition to having a direct presence in 36 African countries and provides a gateway to 49 of the 54 countries that make up the African continent. CFAO has been operating for over 118 years and is also a market leader in mobility, health care, and consumer goods solutions 