 By Vivian Onyebukwa Lions Club of Akowonjo, Lagos, has said that it is going to partner with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, to disseminate Information Education and Communication (IEC) materials for drug abuse sensitization, awareness campaign, to schools and special homes for young people. The project will also include drug abuse prevention talks targeting youths in the community. This was disclosed by the newly installed President of Lions Club of Akowonjo, Ibiba Odili, while realing out her action plan for the new Lions year, during the club’s inaugural meeting and handing over ceremony in Lagos. A list of other projects listed for implementation are in the areas of education, youth activities, health, environment, and support for the less privileged. “We are going to donate digital voice recorders and white canes for the blind at Bethesda Home for the blind at Agege, make books donation to schools, libraries and special homes for youths, and conduct reading sessions for young people”. Others projects, to be implemented, according to her, include donation of food and other items to the needy, destitute, orphanage, and old peoples homes within and beyond their community in partnership with De United Food Industries Limited. In the areas of health, Ofili disclosed how they are going to participate in the childhood cancer awareness month starting from September 1st- 31st, 2020, in partnership with Children Living With Cancer Foundation, while also liaising with Temiye, a Professor at the Pediatric unit in Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), to avail the club of other project options for implementation. In the areas of environment, her plans to provide street lights for some areas has commenced with visitations to identified stakeholders to enhance community visibility. Despite the challenges posed by VOVID 19 pandemic, the club has decided to join other caregivers in sharing love and happiness to others “Taking up service leadership at this time of the COVID19 pandemic comes with significant challenges and rewards. The virus is not only changing the way we live and work, but also the way we serve. While the current situation has had remarkable impact on how Lions conduct service, we should always remember that kindness mattersm more now than ever. It is also important to note that Lions are no way immune from the consequences of the pandemic and other challenges facingc communities. However, because we carry a heart of gold, we have chosen to be on the frontline with other caregivers bringing happiness, sharing love and spreading hope”. She made reference to a famous quote by Winston Churchill when he said, “We make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give”.
She, however, urged everyone to strive to remember that life in abundance comes as a result of giving
ourselves, while committing to give herself for the betterment of all. In other to ensure adequate funds for the implementation of these projects, her approach to friends for support has so far yielded much results as over one N1m has already being raised During her acceptance speech, she went down memory lane on her journey into Lions club, starting from when she first joined the Yaba club, to present. She enjoined every member of the club to key into the process for their fund raising strategies to be inclusive and collective. 