Chukwudi Nweje, Lagos The People’s Democratic Party, (PDP) Lagos State chapter, has warned the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) not to divert State funds into the governorship campaigns of the APC in Edo and Ondo States. The Edo State governorship election will hold on September 19, while Ondo State election comes up in October. The Lagos PDP alleged on Wednesday that the APC plans to use funds from the State to fund APC governorship campaigns and elections in both States. It said Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-olu was specifically chosen to head the Ondo State Campaign Council, not because of his political experience or sagacity, but so that the APC will filter funds from Lagos State to run the Ondo elections. Lagos State Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Taofik Gani, made he claim in a press statement on Wednesday. ‘The selection of Gov Sanwo-olu as Head of the APC Ondo State Governorship Campaign Council cannot be for his political experience but because the APC intends to use Lagos funds to run the Ondo elections. Just as we have already hinted that Sanwoolu has approved N25 billion to support Ize Iyamu in Edo,’ the PDP statement reads. ‘The Party therefore urges the Lagos State Commissioner for Finance and the Accountant General to prepare for accountability within this period of Edo and Ondo States elections. We will invite the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and also support legal protest against this selection targeted at diverting Lagos taxes in the face of colossal infrastructure inadequacies begging for attention in the State,’ Gani said. The party admonished Governor Sanwo-olu to show empathy for Lagosians by rejecting what he called the Greek gift selection as head of APC campaign council, so as to concentrate on his much touted quest to improve the State’s development. ‘Lagos State will be further plunged into avoidable debts and infrastructure deficits if the governor delves into such Party assignments. It is obviously distracting and prodigal at this time. This is the way to Calm Down,’ the PDP said. 