Chinelo Obogo A Nigerian, Yomi  Faparusi, who is running for the U.S Senate in the state of Tennessee on November 3, has expressed confidence in his ability to win the election as an independent candidate and has promised to help fix immigration, health and economic issues. Speaking to Daily Sun, he said he came to the United States as an immigrant but through hard work, he achieved  the American dream and that he is running for election because he wants more Americans to achieve much more and wants to give back to the country. On his academic qualification, he said he  received  his law doctorate degree from Widener University School of Law in Wilmington, Delaware graduating with honors, and his PhD in Public Health from the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland. “I came to the United States in 1997 on political asylum, influenced by patriotism, quest for democracy and my agitation against the late Sani Abacha.  I was born in Ibadan but I am from Ode-Ekiti in Gbonyin LGA of Ekiti state. I was raised on the University of Ibadan campus where I received my medical degree.  In  the  United  States,  I  received  my  jurist doctorate degree from Widener University School of Law in Wilmington, Delaware graduating with Cum Laude honors, and my PhD in Public Health from the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland. Thus, professionally, I am a licensed physician, attorney and a researcher.  I am married with three sons. “I came to the United States as an immigrant and through hard work, America allowed me to achieve the American Dream. I am running because I want to serve and give back to America. Today, three of the top issues America faces are healthcare, economy and immigration. As an immigration attorney and a licensed physician with a background in public health, I believe I have a lot of practical and life experience that I can bring to the US Senate. My campaign is funded mostly through donations. “On the issue of immigration, we can no longer have this as a wedge issue for both major parties to leverage in every election cycle. These two critical questions must be answered: What do we do with undocumented immigrants already inside the US and how do we stop illegal immigration? Promoting legal immigration has to be the foundation, securing our borders and having a working immigration system. What that means is that, if elected, I have to be that voice that is missing at immigration debates in Washington DC. I will work across the political aisle to resolve the immigration crisis. “States have to be encouraged to generate resources by creating a climate that allows small businesses to thrive. Dependence on  the federal government is not a sustainable model. I have always been very passionate about grooming the next generation because they are the future of any nation. I believe youth empowerment and entrepreneurship are best achieved with encouraging mentors to give up some time to mentor these youths. There is no reason why someone has to make the same mistake made by someone older who could give words of wisdom to the youths. “I want a positive voice for all Nigerians- a Nigerian-American elected to the US Senate. I want to show that you can seek public office as an American of Nigerian or African descent and make a positive impact on the future of the United States and the world as a whole,” he said.  