Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja The Federal Government has called for the immediate and unconditional restoration of constitutional order in Mali. This is even as the government said it welcomed the urgent activation of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Standby Force. The call by the Federal Government followed yesterday mutiny by some group of soldiers in the country which led to the resignation of President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, made the call on behalf of the government on his Twitter handle, @GeoffreyOnyeama. “The Nigerian Government unequivocally condemns the the coup d’état that took place in Mali yesterday and demands the immediate and unconditional restoration of constitutional order. We welcome the urgent activation of the ECOWAS Standby Force,” Onyeama said. Earlier, ECOWAS in a statement  issued  in Abuja, utterly condemned  the  overthrowing  of  Kéita’s  democratically  elected  government. ECOWAS also categorically  denied any  kind  of  legitimacy  to  the  putschists  and demanded  the  immediate  reinstatement  of  the  constitutional  order. In the statement, ECOWAS also reminded  the  military of their accountability  for the  safety  and security of President Kéita and officials  arrested. ECOWAS further demanded  the  immediate  release  of  President  Keita  and  of  all  officials  arrested and suspended Mali from  all  ECOWAS  decision-making  bodies  with immediate  effect. ECOWAS also decided to  close  all  land  and  air  borders,  as  well  as  to  stop  all economical,  trade  and  financial  flows  and  transactions  between ECOWAS  member  states  and  Mali,  and  encouraged  all  partners  to do the  same. Meanwhile, the mutinous soldiers have announced the creation of the National Committee for the Salvation of the People (CNSP) to lead a political transition toward general elections following the resignation of President Ibrahim Keita. Spokesperson of the Mutineers, Col.-Maj. Ismael Wague, said this in a statement read on national television. “We are not keen on power, but on the stability of the country, which will allow us to organise general elections within a reasonable time-frame to allow Mali to equip itself with strong institutions that are capable of managing our daily lives. “In order to prevent the country from sinking, we, the patriotic forces gathered together in the National Committee for the Salvation of the People (CNSP), have decided to take our responsibilities to ensure the continuity of the state and public services,” Wague said. The spokesperson also announced a series of decisions coming into force on Wednesday until further notice, including the closure of all air and land borders, and a 9 p.m.-5 a.m. curfew. The CNSP invited civil society and socio-political movements to join in order to create “the best conditions for a better civil transition leading to credible elections.” 