Gabriel Dike The management of Grace Schools, Gbagada, Lagos has decried the attempt by some disgruntled persons to drag the school into slanderous, baseless and unfounded rumours stemming from the extortion of the parents
The school in a statement explained that the report doing the rounds is merely a malicious effort to soil the name of the school by disgruntled persons whose intention and purpose is best known to them. It reads; “We unequivocally put it on record that Grace Schools has not collected such unreasonable amounts from any of our parents in the course of resuming academic activities after the COVID-19 lockdown. “The children only resumed school since the forced closure of schools in March. All the students resumed as day students and none have paid any boarding fees. We request the parents to present evidence of payment and who they paid the alleged N1.5million to, or which hotel the children were camped in.  “We believe this baseless story is sponsored by aggrieved parents who could not accept our decision not to open the boarding house without ironclad safety measures being put in place. It is wicked, immature and uncalled for. “We have sought a legal modality to investigate those sponsoring the malicious rumour and the blogs used to magnify the slanderous, malicious and defaming lies. Grace Schools has thrived on a long-standing record of integrity, credibility and honesty. As an institution whose teaching is hinged on honesty, and good moral conduct, we eschew any vice that may soil the hard-earned, and long-won credibility that the school is known for. “It is saddening that a media platform can jump at junk stories and in unconcerned desperation publish such without following the basic code of journalism, investigate. We also appeal to the general public to disregard the story as a deliberate attempt to create unnecessary crisis for this noble institution.”
The management said most of the parents still owed fees and many of them have not paid, stating, ”yet they want to force the school to open the hostel which cannot contain the students. This is due to the pandemic . According to the school, the parents refused to sign indemnity in case of any issue and stated that it major concern is the safety of the students, adding these students are coming from various homes and what of if anything happens? ”Our only request to the parents is that they should bring their students to school. The examination period is just 14 days. Why are they creating problems? The management disclosed that the school provide education that makes the students fit in anywhere in the world and has also included technology into how students are taught. ”We boast of an enabling and conducive environment, with world-class facilities for intellectual, academics, spiritual, moral and physical development of a child. We are poised to producing godly students who are the future leaders of our dear country, Nigeria.’’ 