Judex Okoro, Calabar The National Chair of the Nigerian Commissioners for Health Forum, Dr Betta Edu, has promised to establish a technical arm to engage development partners for efficient healthcare service delivery in the country. Edu, who is the Cross River State Commissioner for Health, made the promise in her acceptance speech shortly after she emerged as the Chair of the Forum. The newly-elected Chair said during her tenure the Forum would focus on how Nigeria can build a more resilient healthcare system and achieve Universal Health Coverage through the implementation of the Basic Health Care Provision Fund. She further stated that they would ensure total synergy in State Health Insurance Scheme in all States working with the Federal Ministry of Health, the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, and the National Health Insurance Scheme. According to her, ‘the Forum will also seek to improve the general public health response of States to the COVID-19 Pandemic by working in synergy with relevant federal MDAs. ‘There would be high-level policy dialogues that will put health care on the political front burner in all states of the federation working with the Minister for Health and the Nigerian Governors Forum. ‘We also hope to reposition the forum with the establishment of a technical arm to engage Development partners and other key stakeholders for effective healthcare delivery. The National Chair, who commended the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Emmanuel Ehanire, the former chairman, Dr Abba, and her colleagues for their total support to the forum as well as the privilege to lead, promised to take advantage of the present pandemic to advance discussions and actions on the strategic building of health sector. To achieve this, she noted that it is high time that the Forum advocate for strengthening of the health sector and build political capital that would be crucial for our success as a forum. Dr Edu was a few days ago honoured by the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs Social Development in Collaboration with Excellent Women International for her outstanding performance and fight against the spread of COVID-19 especially in Cross River. 