Zika Bobby Stations that broadcast materials considered to be hate speech will now pay N5 million. Before now, fine for hate speech was N500,000. Minister of information and culture, Lai Mohammed, who made the declaration during the unveiling of the amended portion of the sixth edition of the National Broadcasting  Commission (NBC) code, in Lagos, yesterday, insisted that Federal Government would  not yield to blackmail by a segment of the stakeholders opposed to the new code. He warned that stations that rebroadcast foreign news materials that endanger national security or national interest would be penalised. “What I have observed in the reactions to the amendment are interests who believe that their singular business interest is superior to the national interest. “Therefore, they have resorted to all kinds of blackmail, using hack writers. Ladies and gentlemen, we remain unperturbed, because we are acting in the national interest,” he said. The minister reiterated that the intentions of government in effecting the amendment was to catalyze the growth of the local industry and create jobs for the teeming creative youths. Mohammed said the broadcasting code is not a static document, therefore those who have misgivings about the amended code should meet with the regulator and present their views for considerations in subsequent amendment. “As I said, there are opportunities for constant review of the Code, but please note that this latest amendment is signed, sealed and delivered, and we are committed to making it work for the good of the country.” He recalled that the  amendments were necessitated by a Presidential directive for inquiry into the unwholesome conduct of some broadcast stations in the wake of the 2019 general elections. He said government equally saw the need  to strengthen the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) to effectively perform it’s regulatory roles. He said the amendments were mostly in the areas of political broadcasting, local content, coverage of emergencies, advertising and anti-competitive behaviour. He explained that provisions relating to exclusivity and monopoly in the code would  boost local content and local industry as well as encourage open access to premium contents. “Sub-licensing and Rights sharing create opportunities for local operators to also gain traction and raise revenue for their services. “The law prohibiting backlog of advertising debts will definitely promote sustainability for the station owners and producers of content. “The law on registration of Web Broadcasting grants the country the opportunity to regulate negative foreign broadcasts that can harm us as a nation. Such harms could be in the area of security, protection for minors, protection of human dignity, economic fraud, privacy,” he said. Acting Director-General of NBC, Prof. Armstrong Idachaba thanked the government for implementing measures for effective functioning of the broadcast industry in the country. He commended the minister for implementing reforms in the sector, laudable intervention to assist practitioners as well as refocussing and repositioning the Digital Switch Over programme. 