For 10 good years, top lawyer and events guru, Diekolola Olatanwa Osa-Avielele waited on the Lord for the fruit of the womb. After a decade of trusting, she conceived and finally had her own baby in the United States. As family members and her friends at home were rejoicing and waiting to rock her cute baby and hug the mother, the sad news filtered in of her death due to childbirth complications. Diekolola died on Thursday, July 16, 2020, barely a week after the birth of her son —who is alive and healthy— in Fairfax, Virginia, United States. The news of Diekolola’s death was confirmed by her younger sister, Abimbola Dayo-Adewoye on her Instagram page. She wrote, “Two days ago, our world came crashing down as an angel left the earth. My sister Deki passed on and left us in great distress. There are five of us girls and my brother, my second sister left our close-knit team of six leaving an unmendable crack. Thanks to everyone that has tried to reach us. We’re sorry for being unreachable because as you can imagine we’re still trying to wrap our heads around what just happened. Please celebrate with me my beautiful sister Diekolola Olatanwa, Olaotan, Oluwatoyin Osa-Avielele who just took her final bow from this world. I don’t know how I can bear this, but I know it is well”. And indeed, days after grim reaper took away the kind-hearted 44-year old second daughter of former Kwara State governor, Chief Cornelius Adebayo, the social establishment has been in a very deep mourning as they had waited to celebrate the great testimony of the lady who has changed the face of events business in Lagos and Abuja. Until her death, Diekolola was the MD/CEO of Cedarwood Group, an event and rental servicing company. A lawyer by training, she bagged a BL from the University of Ilorin and an LLM from Howard University School of Law, Washington DC. The deceased had worked as a corporate in-house attorney for billionaire mogul, Dr. Mike Adenuga Jnr.’s companies —Globacom and ConOil Producing— before she set up her business. She is married to Emmanuel Osa-Avielele, a Bini man from Edo State, who is a top banker. 