Mohammed Munirat Nasir, Gusau Troops of Operation Sahel Sanity working to curb banditry, kidnapping and other sundry crimes in the North-West have killed 80 bandits and arrested 50 bandits and informants in Zamfara, Katsina and Sokoto States. A statement by the Acting Director, Defence Media Operations, Defence Headquarters, Abuja, Brig-General Bernard Onyeuko, said Operation Sahel Sanity flagged on July 6, as part of activities of the Nigerian Army Day Celebration (NADCEL 2020) at the Super Camp IV in Faskari, Katsina State has recorded tremendous successes since the flag off about one month ago. ‘So far, in all the operations conducted, 80 armed bandits have been neutralized, a total of 943 cows, 633 sheep/rams recovered; 33 suspected bandits arrested; 7 AK47 rifles, 1 GPMG and 16 Dane guns captured; 17 kidnapped victims rescued and 14 bandits informants and collaborators arrested,’ he said. General Onyeuko added that the gallant troops of Operation Sahel Sanity within the period under review has carried out a series of clearance operations, ambushes and other aggressive and confidence-building patrols within Sokoto, Katsina and Zamfara States. ‘There is no gainsaying therefore that within the first month of Operation Sahel Sanity from 1st to 31st July, troops have recorded several successes in line with the aim of the operation which is to support Operation Hadarin Daji in stemming the tides of the activities of armed bandits, cattle rustlers, kidnappers, incessant killings and other sundry crimes in the North-West zone,” he said. He further stated that several bandits camps including the notorious Dangote Triangle and their logistics bases were destroyed by troops of Operation Sahel Sanity. ‘These operations have led to the rescue of kidnapped victims, recovery of rustled cattle, the arrest of suspected armed bandits, the arrest of bandits informants and collaborators. Furthermore, there were recoveries of a large cache of arms and ammunition as well as recovery of motorcycles and other bandits logistics within the period,’ he said. Onyeuko added the acts of criminalities orchestrated by the bandits had before now crippled the agricultural, social and economic activities of the people of the North-West zone. ‘The gallant troops continue to dominate volatile areas. This achievement is further evident by the active resumption of farming, social and economic activities by the locals with reduced fear of threats in their localities,’ he said. 