By Maduka Nweke RTS Global Insurance Brokers Ltd, a leading insurance and re-insurance broker, will expand its business in Lagos with a move to Alaro City, Lagos’ new city in the Lekki Free Zone. The firm, which provides solutions for insurance and risk management, announced that it will build its new office in Alaro City to take advantage of the growing financial services sector in Nigeria and Lekki Free Zone benefits. RTS Global joins more than two dozen companies moving to the new city. Badejo Onaduja, Managing Director and CEO of RTS Global, said the firm chose Alaro City because it represented the future of Nigerian urban development. “The choice of Alaro City for our new facilities is a key part of our repositioning to enhance our services to private and institutional clients.” Odunayo Ojo, CEO of Alaro City, said the number of businesses that have signed up to build their facilities is a testament of the quality of infrastructure by Rendeavour, the developer of Alaro City, in partnership with Lagos State Government. “We are pleased to welcome RTS Global to our community as we make significant progress with infrastructure such as roads, a power plant and water.” Launched in January 2019, Alaro City is planned as a 2,000-hectare mixed-income, city-scale development with industrial and logistics locations, complemented by offices, homes, schools, healthcare facilities, hotels, entertainment and 150 hectares (370 acres) of parks and open spaces. Alaro City has been widely hailed as the next evolution of Lagos. More than 3.5km of initial road networks and a modular 50MVA power plant are under construction. In January 2020, the largest ready-to-eat therapeutic foods factory in Africa was launched in Alaro City by Ariel Foods FZE. The facility, located on 15,414 square metres, has an annual production facility of 18,000 metric tonnes and is the most technically advanced manufacturing facility in the world, capable of enabling Nigeria to meet its own requirements and export nutritional ready to eat foods. 