Former  Anambra Governor and vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Peter obi, has called on youths to reflect soberly on Nigeria’s journey as a nation putting into consideration the past challenges and future hope of the nation, and begin to generate progressive ideas that would save the country from further decline. Obi, who made this call in a message to mark the International Youths Day 2020, urged the youths to begin to look inwards for solutions to the myriads of challenges facing the country. He reminded them that the salvation of the country depended on them and that it would be unfair to let the country down by not living up to expectations. Regretting the years of accumulated leadership failure which had denied the youths access to basic amenities and deprived them of many opportunities, Obi said the government had, in many ways, failed to plan for the youths, the supposed leaders of tomorrow. He, however, urged the youths to cut a path for themselves and focus their minds on productive ideas that could change the negative narratives associated with the country. He urged the youth to take their education, especially  vocational education very seriously. He maintained that education remained the currency they needed for future competition in a global world. He also said vocational education and skill acquisition would empower the youths to be less dependent on government, while creating more opportunities for themselves. “Today provides us another opportunity, as Nigerian youths, to look inwards and ponder on ways we can contribute to build a better society for ourselves and our generations unborn. Continued dependence on government to make plans for the youths might result in unrealized dreams. This is therefore a wake-up call to the youths to understand that they are the hope of our nation, thus they should contribute more progressively to build the Nigeria of our dreams. I encourage them to also maximise every educational opportunity at their disposal and improve themselves to be able to compete with their global counterparts”, Obi wrote in the message. 