The Chairman, Edo State Council for Islamic Affairs, (EDSCIA), Alhaji Abdulazeez Nosakhare Igbinidu, yesterday, said those who went about endorsing governorship candidates for the state’s governorship election did that at their own peril and did not reflect the stand of the Islamic Community. He stated this in Benin while reacting to news in some quarters that the body has endorsed candidates ahead of the September 19 election in the state. Igbinidu said the body is neutral and doesn’t dabble into politics though it doesn’t also forbid any Muslim from aligning with any political party or candidate of his or her choice. “EDSCIA is not a political organization. However, we are aware that some of our members belong to those organizations where they are striving to actualise their political aspirations. “We are not against any of their legitimate actions to perfect their political interest through their various political parties and associations. “That Edo State Council for Islamic Affairs headed by Alhaji Abdulazeez Nosakhare Igbinidu is the only body that has the power to speak on behalf of Muslim Community in Edo State and that this body did not authorize or directs any individual or group of Muslims purported to act on behalf of Edo State chapter for Islamic Affairs or any other name to endorse any politician. “That we condemn in its entirety the purported endorsement of a particular politician using the name of Edo State chapter for Islamic Affairs or any other name as they don’t have such right to speak on behalf of Edo Muslims”, he said. Igbinidu urged all Muslims faithful in the state to ignore all such endorsements and continue with their political activities as individuals or as independent groups, just as he called on all politicians seeking election under the various political parties to feel free to solicit vote or campaign to whoever they wish, including the Muslims. He pleaded with all Muslims in the state not to contribute negatively to the already tensed political atmosphere by their actions just as he promised that as a religious body, they will continue to pray for a peaceful and successful election in the state. He reiterated that EDSCIA would organize a prayer session in Benin Central Mosque for a peaceful election in due course and that they would also invite the various political parties and their candidates/and or representative to be in attendance. 