Fred Chukwuelobe Nigerian workers, in their tribute on his 68th birthday, said, “looking back at the past few years of our relationship with as social partners, one thing has stood out very clear: you have demonstrated one consistent character which is the penchant of leaving the door of frank discussions, open negotiations, and genuine reconciliation open. Those are traits of a great man” President Muhammadu Buhari said, in his tribute, that he is “a conciliator-general” between government and organized labour, as he saluted him for his “meritorious stewardship to community, State, country and humanity”. These deserving accolades are part of the deluge of greetings that came the way of His Excellency, Senator (Dr.) Chris Nwabueze Ngige, OON, honourable minster of labour and employment; former senator, Anambra Central Senatorial District, and two-term minster, as he clocked 68 years. In their effusive tribute, the workers said the minister has “carved out a niche in the minds of Nigerians as a dogged fighter” in whatever cause he believes in. If you ask the Anambra man, he would echo the same sentiments even with elation. He came into office as governor, Anambra State, in 2003 in controversial circumstances, but left a hero and a liberator. Because of him Anambra State can today boast of one of the best road networks in the entire federation. Because of him, governance has a new face in the state even though he is no longer in power. Fourteen years after he left office, he remains a toast of the people. Even his enemies attest to this. Because of him and what he stood for, Anambra State is today liberated and is enjoying democracy dividends. Some see him as “too stubborn” because he would not succumb to threats to open the public till and share public funds on political patronagem. Others say he is “too stingy” because neither would he spend public funds on frivolities. But for the down-trodden in Anambra State who were praying for salvation from years of economic strangulation and political squeeze, his administration between May 2003 and March 2006 changed the landscape of the state. The unprecedented infrastructural development his administration put in place remains eloquent testimony of his craftsmanship. He was prudent with state resources, which enabled workers and pensioners receive their salaries and allowances as and when due. He refused to fritter them on indiscriminate award of contracts that would end up being abandoned after the collection of mobilization fees. For Nigerian workers, Dr. Ngige, as two-time minister of labour and employment, has managed the usually frosty government-labour relationships with tact, allowing the nation to enjoy peaceful industrial relations such as has never been seen before and against the background of dwindling fortunes of the nation’s economy. His stoicism was tested fully as governor and he stood tall. It has again been tested as minister of labour and employment and again he stands tall, culminating in the President finding him worthy to serve twice as minister. In Anambra State, he has remained a reference point to future governors on how to run an effective and people-oriented administration. He remains today the best thing that has happened to them and their hitherto beleaguered state. Not only did he transform the entire landscape – infrastructure-wise and behaviorally – within 33 months in office, he also restored people’s confidence in government through prudent management of resources and execution of people-oriented projects and programmes. Not only did he survive several illegal attempts to remove him from office for refusing to align with those who preferred quick money to hard work, including the infamous July 10, 2003, abduction, he equally survived an automobile accident that claimed two lives, a bomb blast that shattered the walls of his official residence and other sleepless nights spent in search of solutions to the myriad problems created by years of neglect by past leaders of Anambra State. Teachers and civil servants, who thought that regular payment of their salaries/allowances, was impossible and that closure of schools for one calendar year was the lot of Anambra State, saw a different picture while he was governor. In schools and offices across the state, despair gave way to happiness. Life returned to the schools and student enrolment increased. Pensioners, who were once described as “dead woods”, became “living woods” thanks to the regular pensions and gratuities they received courtesy of the Ngige administration. Roads abandoned for upwards of 25 years were reconstructed. Ask the man from Nibo, Mbaukwu, Nkpor, Ogidi, Abatete, Nnobi, Nnewi, Onitsha, Awka, Okija, Uga, Umuchu, Umunze, Nkwelle-Ezunaka and Agulu. Even the man from Adazi-Ani, Umuoji, Uke, Oraukwu, Ukpo, Ifite-Dunu Owerre-Ezukala Ogbunka, Ihembosi Awkuzu, Ozubulu and other parts of the state, will tell you that driving on these well-asphalted roads with their wide drains still looks like a dream to them. Indeed, it was a dream come true, thanks to one man’s determination. The same scenario was repeated in the health, water, agriculture, security of life and property and other sectors of the economy. Therefore, on August 8, 2020, the people had cause to remember this man and joined him in thanking God for these works and for his life as he clocked 68. Born on August 8, 1952, into the family of Chief Pius Ngige (Akunnia) and the late Mrs. Priscilla Ngige (nee Okafor), of Alor, Idemili South Local Government of Anambra State, Dr. Ngige never set out to become governor. He wanted to be a senator (Anambra Central Senatorial District), which he eventually got after a meritorious stewardship as the state’s chief executive. As an ideal medical doctor versed in administration, contract supervision and execution, he occupied several sensitive positions in government service before contesting the governorship of the state. He was medical officer, National Assembly Clinic, between 1980 and 1982; physician to the Senate President, 1983; physician of State House/Federal Government Special Guest House, 1985-90; consultant in charge of Federal Government Staff Clinic, The Presidency, Abuja 1992-93; consultant and associate director in charge of all Federal Medical Centres in Nigeria, Federal Ministry of Health headquarters, Abuja 1994-97. As deputy director of Hospital Services, federal medical Centres/teaching hospitals, Federal Ministry of Health, Abuja, Dr. Ngige, between 1996 and 1998, was member, Ministerial Task Force on Completion of University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH), Ituku, Enugu State, and was the architect of all the revived construction activities on the site on behalf of the ministry. Ngige is the proud recipient of the Officer of the Order of the Niger (O.O.N) from the Federal Government in recognition of his outstanding contributions to the growth of the society. He was member, Nigeria G-15 Economic co-operation Council 1990, set up by the Babangida regime under the Chairmanship of the late Bashorun M.K.O. Abiola, a special federal Government Delegation that went to under-study Indonesia and Malaysia’s economic experience in agriculture, health and technology. He was also member, Vision 2010 sub-committee on health as well as ad hoc lecturer on budget/contract procedures, Administrative Staff College of Nigeria (ASCON), Topo, Badagry, near Lagos. His contributions to socio-political bodies prior to ascending the exalted office of Governor of Anambra State are equally outstanding. He was between 1992 and 1996 foundation Sole Administrator and later President. Aka-Ikenga, a respected group of Igbo intellectuals in the professions and industries. It was on this platform and as co-convener of Mkpoko Igbo the pre-1995 Constitutional Conference for the Igbo that he helped articulate the people positions on national politics. As member of Ohanaeze Council of Elders and President of Aka Ikenga between 1992 and 1997, Ngige re-awakened the people’s zeal in the search for an egalitarian Igbo society. His contributions to politics particularly his leadership roles in fashioning for Ndigbo the road map to national politics in the apex Igbo socio-cultural body earned him the title “authentic Igbo leader”. A grassroots man, Dr. Ngige has also played leading roles in the life of his community at Alor. He was Chairman, Alor Development Union Lagos Branch, 1990-96; and back home from his Lagos base, he served as President General, Alor Peoples Convention 1996-99, Special Adviser and member, Igwe Alor-in-Council, 1990 to date. Despite his elite status, Dr. Ngige never ceases to participate in local politics and tradition, as he has to his credit several traditional titles. He also received President’s Choice/Special Performance Award: “For EXCELLENCE as Governor of Anambra State”, Anambra State Association (ASA) USA, 2006; Award of Recognition: “For showing extraordinary courage while in office as Governor of Anambra State of Nigeria”, World Igbo Congress (WIC), 2006, Boston, USA; Achievement Award: “In recognition of His Pace-setting Record in Transforming Anambra State”, Anambra State (Nigeria) Association Inc, Washington Metropolis, USA 2006; Award of OUTSTANDING PERFROMANCE in Governance of Anambra State, Anambra State Association of Baltimore Metropolitan Chapter Inc., 2006; Community Service Award: “EXEMPALRY Leadership”, Anambra State Progressive Union New York Inc., New York, USA, 2006; Valued Leadership Award, NDI Anambra in Boston, USA, 2006; Performance Award: “For Exemplary and Courageous Leadership in Anambra State of Nigeria, 2003 – 2006”, Anambra State Association of Southern California, USA, June 3, 2006; Grateful Appreciation/Recognition Award: “For your Outstanding and Dedicated Services to Anambra State of Nigeria”, Anambra State Women Association of Southern California, USA, 2006. No doubt, these awards are eloquent testimonies that the people both at home and in the Diaspora appreciate the sacrifices Dr. Ngige made to free their state and from locusts and laid a solid foundation upon which it is being built today. For these and many more, we join his family and friends in saying happy 68th birthday, Onwa.  •Chukwuelobe, former Senior Special Assistant (Media and Publicity) to ex-governor Ngige, writes from Lagos 