Benjamin Babine, Abuja The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has said that the only drawback of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration is that it has achieved so much but hasn’t publicised them enough for Nigerians to know. The Minister, who made this remark in Abuja, while giving a speech at the commissioning of eleven projects by the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, said that the occasion is a proof that the Federal Government has achieved so much that needs to be lauded. ‘I want to thank the Honorable Minister, for showcasing what this particular Ministry has achieved. I found out that the single draw back that this administration has is the administration has done so well but regrettably, we have been very shy to let the world know what we have done. I also want to thank the Governor of Imo state, because when I was with him in Addis Ababa with Mr President, the same issue came up, that this government has done so much in agriculture, water resources, communications, but we need to push this narrative much more, he said. ‘About three months ago, I sent out a schedule to all Ministers, making available all our platforms – NTA, FRCN, VON and NAN, to use these platforms to let Nigerians know how much this administration has touched the lives of every individual. I am glad that my colleagues have cooperated with me on this.’ Also in attendance, the Governor of Imo state, Hope Uzodinma, spoke about how his State has started benefitting from some of the projects already commissioned by the Ministry. He said: ‘We have already started benefitting from the facility, I launched it a few weeks ago. Our security outfits will be making use of the Emergency Communication Center and the emergency number is 112 courtesy of NCC. So on that note, I’m inviting the Minister to come for an official commissioning. It was supposed to be done before now but because of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the lockdown, it was not possible.’ He went on to speak on the quick effect of the emergency number, saying: ‘If you also notice, the crime rate has gone down. We have been busting one crime syndicate after the other, making use of the facility. Evey distress call is attended to, courtesy of the NCC, under the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy.’ He said that he is committed to transforming his state by taking advantage of the opportunities provided through the digital industry. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Pantami, expressed his gratitude to President Buhari for his support and he stressed that the President is the major enabler and enforcer of the digital economy vision. ‘The credit for all these achievements should not just come to the Minister, Permanent Secretary or the heads of parastatals, most importantly the credit is for our boss, President Muhammadu Buhari,’ Pantami said. The event, which was attended by several Governors, Ministers and Senators, saw the commissioning of digital economy projects in Delta, Cross River, Gombe, Kwara, Imo, Jigawa, Borno, Bauchi, Bayelsa, etc. 