Molly Kilete, Abuja Ahead of the gubernatorial elections in Edo and Ondo States, the Inspector-General of Police;IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has warned politicians to conduct themselves properly and steer-clear of tendencies capable of undermining the electoral processes. Adamu said the warning has become necessary as security reports from the two states revealed an alarming arming and movement of political thugs and
use of inciting statements during political campaigns. He said there are indications of high likelihood of violence and possible cross attack by political opponents, misinformation/disinformation aimed at heating-up of the polity and deliberate efforts at delegitimizing government institutions involved in the electoral processes. To this end, the IGP, has ordered the Commissioners of Police in the two States to rejig their preparations for the elections to accommodate and address the threats and emerging trends as contained in the security report. The IGP, gave the warning in a statement signed by force public relations officer Frank Mba, in Abuja. The IGP, said having reviewed the Election Security Threat Assessment Reports submitted by the Commissioners of Police from both States in a meeting held on August, 25, the police to would not hesitate to bring the full weight of the law on anyone or group, irrespective of status that may want to sabotage the security arrangement being emplaced for the elections. The statement reads;
“The Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A. Adamu, has warned politicians and their supporters in Edo and Ondo States, where gubernatorial elections are scheduled to hold on 19th September, 2020 and 10th October, 2020 respectively, to conduct themselves properly, play by the rules and steer-clear of tendencies capable of undermining the electoral process in the two States. “The IGP gave the warning having reviewed the Election Security Threat Assessment Reports submitted by the Commissioners of Police from both States in a meeting held Tuesday, 25th August, 2020. The Election Security Threat Analysis reveals amongst other indicators: arming and movement of political thugs, use of inciting statements during political campaigns, high likelihood of violence and possible cross attack by political opponents, misinformation/disinformation aimed at heating-up of the polity and deliberate efforts at delegitimizing government institutions involved in the electoral processes. “The IGP has therefore ordered the Commissioners of Police in the two States – Edo and Ondo – to rejig their preparations for the elections to accommodate and address the threats and emerging trends as contained in the security report. He noted that the Force leadership is evolving customized security architecture to protect the people and ensure hitch-free elections. The IGP however warns politicians and their supporters in Edo and Ondo that the Force will not hesitate to bring the full weight of the law on anyone or group, irrespective of status that may want to sabotage the security arrangement being emplaced for the elections. “Meanwhile, the IGP assures Nigerians, particularly the people of Edo and Ondo States that the Force remains committed to protecting the sanctity of the ballot in the country. He reiterates that the Police will be neutral, apolitical and will work assiduously with all stakeholders in ensuring a level playing ground for all in the elections.”  