One of Africa’s largest cement producers, BUA Cement, has announced an impressive 2020 half-year results declaring revenue of N101.3 billion and a Profit After Tax of N34.82 billion representing an increase of 12.7 per cent and 13.74 per cent respectively from the corresponding period in 2019. This was contained in a filing at the Nigerian Stock Exchange. Speaking on the results, Yusuf Binji, Managing Director of BUA Cement, said that the continued impressive performance in 2020, despite the challenging operating environment occasioned by the covid-19 pandemic, was a pointer to the value and strength of the BUA Cement brand and product offerings as well as a nod to the excellent implementation of the company’s Business Continuity Plan which ensured that BUA Cement was able to withstand the impact of the pandemic in the period under review. “Our resilient performance continues to showcase the value and strength in our product offering alongside our strategic business model. Our revenues increased by 12.7 per cent to N101.3 billion from the corresponding period in 2019, while operating profits increased by 7 per cent, from N38.1 billion in H1’2019 to N40.8 billion in H1’2020. Equally, EBITDA margin improved in this quarter to 48.1 per cent – an improvement from 45.6 per cent in Q1, 2020. “In a bid to further drive cost efficiencies and sustainability, we entered into strategic alliances for the supply of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) at the Kalambaina, Sokoto State and the management of our mining operations. Given these deliberate and strategic choices among other cost management efforts, we continue to combine development and innovation into our offerings and activities.”, Binji added. On the impact of the pandemic on the business, Binji noted that, “despite the prevailing economic conditions, we  are quite optimistic about the future because it affords us not only with the opportunity to further evolve our business model but also provides an opportunity for accelerated development. We will continue to push to new markets aided by a focused distribution strategy.” It should be noted that BUA Cement has also been actively involved in alleviating the impact of the virus on the most vulnerable in society while also supporting the government’s efforts by providing foodstuff, PPEs and medical equipment to host communities among others. 