 By Tony Ogaga Speaking to The Sun Newspapers after the inauguration of her team, Oboh assured that Inneh and other members of her campaign team were carefully selected based on loyalty and track record. Oboh also urged Inneh and members of her team not to entertain any fears as ADC was poised to snatch the mantle of leadership from the incumbent, Gov. Obaseki. Oboh, however warned them against playing double standards and charged them to remain focused and utilise their experience in the state’s political terrain to ensure victory for the party in the September 18 elections. In her response, Inneh who is a Diaspora Nigerian, an entrepreneur and humanitarian who has been fighting for women’s right and the youths both in the United Kingdom and Nigeria spoke on the determination of the campaign team to carry out aggressive grass root mobilization, which would be hinged on adequate information dissemination and urged members of the committee to imbibe the spirit of sacrifice and loyalty to ensure the realization of their mandate.
Meanwhile, on the campaign trail, Mabel Oboh and her team led by Inneh visited the people of Okukhuo community in Ovia North LGA of Edo State where they were warmly received by women, youth and leaders of the community. Oboh listened attentively to the lamentations of the people and assured them that she understands and feels their pain. She also assured the people that her administration will eradicate poverty, ensure better health care, create jobs for the youth in the community, and encourage and train the youth in community policing so they can secure their community better and ensure food security through new and improved agricultural farming methods among others. Oboh added that when sworn into office, her priority among others will be the empowerment of the women and youths of Edo State through empowerment schemes and programmes. She also called on more women to go into politics while assuring the community of accessible roads after which she wished the Muslim faithful in the community a happy Sallah. 