Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has decried the encroachment on government land. He described as unfortunate the excuse by residents to encroach on the land owned by Government Comprehensive Secondary School, Borikiri, Port Harcourt. The governor made the observation, yesterday, when he visited the school to see the extent of encroachment. “It is most unfortunate that our people will always want to encroach on school land believing nothing will happen. This is not acceptable. I pray that this does not continue. “This is because another government can come up tomorrow  and bring down such illegal structures. People will then bring ethnic coloration to it. “I have endorsed the redesign of the Government Comprehensive Secondary School to restore its former glory. “The school, which had made the state proud and produced eminent Nigerians cannot be allowed to die. “I believe this is one school that has made name for us. Nigerians and Rivers people should know we cannot kill it. “We will do everything we can do to bring it back to its lost glory. We may not demolish all the structures because of those erected as historical symbols,” Wike said. He commended the old boys association for showing interest in restoring the glory of the school that made them to be responsible citizens. Wike also lauded them for setting up a technical committee to achieve their goal. “I am happy with their concerns. If old boys of other schools can show the kind of support these ones are showing to their school, I think we will go a long way. “The old boys have agreed to set a technical team. They will do a redesign of the entire school based on the available land because there was too much encroachment. We are going to give them all the necessary support to achieve maximum result. They will also supervise the construction work themselves to ensure they get the quality they want,” he said. The old boys association president, Noble Abe, thanked Governor Wike for supporting their vision. 