Integrated Cash Management Services Limited (ICMS), one of the licenced cash processing companies in Nigeria has announced some key management appointments in the company. A statement by  the company yesterday said Mr. Emmanuel Onyebadi,  a Certified Protection Professional (CPP), and a Professional Certified Investigator (PCI) of the American Society for Industrial Security (ASIS), has been appointed as the Head of Security Services Department. Onyebadi was a former Director of the Department of State Services (DSS) and has  a career spanning over 25 years was as Head of Security at Notore Fertilizer Company in PH River State. Also named the Head of Operations is Mr. Ken Anaje who  has over 23 years professional experience in the banking operations space and holds BSc in Accounting and MBA in Finance from the University of Nigeria. Ms. Doris Ibekwe, the new Head of Corporate Services is a certified Six Sigma Yellow Belt professional and holds an LLM degree from the University of Lagos as well as other professional certifications. She has over 14 years active working experience spanning telecommunications and professional law practice. Other appointments included Mr Thomas Ekoli who was appointed the Head of Business Development and Strategy. He holds a Bachelor Degree in Business Administration and MBA in Marketing from Enugu State University of Science and Technology, and the Lagos State University respectively. Tom joined ICMS in 2009 and through continuous superlative performance and relentless self development, he rose to the present position. In the same vein Mr Kolawole Ikuejawa is now the Head, Enterprise Risk Management and Compliance. He is an Associate Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) and the Risk Management Association of Nigeria (RIMAN) respectively. In his remarks, founder and chairman of the ICMS Board, Mr Charles Nwodo Jnr congratulated the Management of ICMS for keeping faith with the approved business expansion plan of the company. 