It is true that the Yoruba in Chief Olusegun Obasanjo have produced the country’s president (1999 – 2007) and the North in the duo of Katsina State – born late Mr. Umaru Yar’Adua (2007 – 10) and incumbent General Muhammadu Buhari (2015 – to date). It is also true that the minorities in the South – South have produced the nation’s First Citizen in Dr. Goodluck Jonathan (2010 – 15). It is also true that the Igbo are the only one of the three major ethnic groups that have not come up with the nation’s Head of State since the return to civil rule in 1999, twenty – one years ago. But since the rotation or zoning of the presidency is not in the country’s constitution no one can guarantee that the Igbo or the South – East will produce the successor of President Buhari. Already, we are hearing that former Vice – President Atiku Abubakar and the present Governor of Sokoto State, Alhaji Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, are preparing to contest the presidential primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). And that whoever emerges the winner of the primaries may choose the running mate from either the South – West or South – South. Given this situation, Igbo leaders will need to meet former President Jonathan and other PDP chieftains in the South – South and South – West to get them speak with northern PDP leaders to concede the party’s ticket for the 2023 presidential polls to the South – East and the Igbo. And they are likely to succeed because they voted overwhelmingly for Jonathan and the PDP in 2015 and the fraternity between Yoruba and the Igbo leaders in the last seven years or so. The major problem of Igbo leaders will be how to get the chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to concede the presidency to the South – East, given fact that they voted for the PDP during the last election. Consequently, APC leaders in the North would prefer to back the South – West to produce the country’s next president because the Yoruba made it possible for Buhari to win in 2015. In all the elections Buhari contested in 2003, 2007 and 2011 he had eleven million plus votes, ninety – five per cent of which came from the North and he did not score twenty – five per cent in two – thirds of the 36 states in the country. It was in 2015 when the way President Jonathan sidelined them made the Yoruba to vote for Buhari that he won fifteen million plus votes, and scored more than 25 per cent votes in at least 24 states. Since, as they say, one good turn (always) deserves another, the majority of APC members in the North will prefer Buhari’s successor to come from the South – West. What’s more, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu who made it possible for the majority of the Yoruba to have voted for Buhari in 2015 is a Muslim. And it goes without saying that they would prefer someone from their faith to be the next president than Christian. To be continued Wednesday, next week. Holy Spirit Story In John Chapter 14 – 16 Not About Prophet Muhammad’s Coming This is like the case with the person Prophet Moses spoke of in Deuteronomy 18:18 and Prophet Isaiah in Isaiah 28:11 and 41:1 – 9 and the Prophet John the Baptist in John 1:21 said he was not. In other words, it is another deliberate effort to misinform people when Muslim scholars online and Kano State – born Dr. Umar Idris (080 – 3507 – 6426) in the text messages he sent to me two months ago, on June 18, claimed that the Holy Spirit Jesus talked about in John Chapters 14 – 16 was on the advent of Prophet Muhammad. Of course, the only reason they say this is because it is in Chapter 61:6 in the Qur’an that Jesus predicted the coming of Prophet Muhammad and this is apparent in one of the text messages Dr. Idris sent to me.  According to him, “As to John 14:26 (and indeed John 16:7), the personality Jesus was referring to cannot be the Holy Spirit because the Holy Spirit was already there and cannot be the one to be sent after the departure of Jesus. You cannot send what is already there. “See Luke 1:15; 1:41; 1:67; Luke 2:26; Luke 3:22 and Matthew 12:28 and 31 and please read in full the book: Muhammad: The Natural Successor to Christ by Ahmed Deedat. That Jesus foretold the coming of Prophet Muhammad can be found in Qur’an Chapter 61:6.” To start with, Dr. Idris and the Muslim scholars like Deedat and Zakir Abdulkarim Naik, are wrong in their interpretation of the stories on the Holy Spirit in John Chapters 14, 15 and 16. I urge everyone reading this to go and peruse the write – ups in the three chapters to see that Jesus was not making a prediction on the coming of a prophet that would bring a new religion. Rather, he was saying that after his death that he would send the Holy Spirit to his disciples and not to everyone in the world. And this is clear in his statement in John 14:25 – 26 where he said: “I have told you this while I am still with you. The Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you everything and make you remember all that I have told you.” But instead of the Helper in the Good News Bible it is the Comforter that is used in the King James Version. Whether Helper of Comforter, how can the statement of Jesus mean that he was talking of the coming of Prophet Muhammad? What Muslims scholars and Dr. Idris who think otherwise do not realize is that they are implying that Jesus pleaded with God to send Prophet Muhammad to bring Islam. Meaning that they are giving the impression that Jesus and the religion he brought (Christianity) are superior to Prophet Muhammad and the Islam he introduced. More to come next week Do You Want To Sell Honey? A reader has reached out to me that he has Pure Honey to sell, so that diabetics can stop using sugar that increases the glucose level in their blood, and worsens the disease that affects body organs, makes people go blind and kills. But as I did with the four herbalists I wrote about in the last five years I told him that he had to prove the authenticity of his claim by providing 75cl bottle (small water bottle) of his honey free of charge for five readers to test. But it is when at least three users have confirmed that his honey is pure that I can recommend him to all and sundry. So, if you are interested in marketing his honey call or send me a text message. I will draw ballot on Sunday, August 16 to choose the lucky ones. I picked the day because it is exactly the fifth anniversary of my mother going to glory in 2015 at the age of 101. Next week: The insecticide that eliminates mosquitoes from rooms for two to three weeks. 