“The God you serve is a great God. I am very thankful to Him for answering my prayers through your instructions that accompanied your oil. My daughter studying in America was misbehaving and it was attributed to drug addiction and abuse. She was sent out of school following the recommendation of a psychiatric doctor that was giving her attention; she used to cry out at night as she was constantly complaining of being chased by a demonic dwarf creature. This troubled us but we continued praying, until we contacted you this year; the condition was not getting any better after all the medical treatment. The moment you were contacted and following your investigation, you instructed that we order some bottles of your oil, which we did, after the prayer you demanded to see us after the visit and other things that followed, our daughter became completely healed and taking her studies seriously now. She speaks very coherently and logically, unlike before… the devil has been put to shame. The evil deity that afflicted her with madness was burnt down following divine intervention. The boy that was used has confessed, as God is dealing with all of them. God bless you sir. – Mr. & Mrs. Ugochukwu Achumba, achumbaugochukwu422@gmail.com “Dear Prof, I got your oil and did the prayer, I finished my 14 days anointing and got my first miracle. The man that confessed killing my father died this evening. The second miracle was three days after my 14 days, my data was captured, meaning I have been payrolled and no longer an ad hoc staff. God has done it.” – Mr. David “Glory to God that when I got your oil and did the prayer, the young girl who has been holding my husband and made him forget his children ran out of the home. She is begging me to forgive her for the demonic role she played in my marriage. For 15 years, my husband abandoned me and my five children to suffer. I am happy that his eyes are now open and his children are enjoying him as a father.” (Name and number withheld) The boy was aware of the fact that, if he did not actualize the demonic assignment, he would thereafter be punished, for Satan has no friend at all. This awareness made him put on his best in the operation. When he gathered the children and started flogging them, they all started crying, thus, the woman ran outside and the moment this boy set his eyes on her he started fighting her, while expecting the woman to retaliate. The woman started singing a gospel song thus: “Power, power beyond the sky has set me free” etc. When she sang this song, the “demon” boy ran inside and fell on the floor. The woman took her children in and started praying. Well the boy was thereafter punished in accordance with demonic rules. The Bible says, “they shall surely gather together but not by me, whosoever shall gather together against thee shall fall for thy sake…” (Isaiah 54:15) The woman was set free consequent upon the fact that she was abiding under the shadow of the Almighty. If any man is blessed with this kind of a wife, he is fulfilled in the search for love, unity and peace; however, if your wife is not with such qualities, well, may the will of God be done. And for one to get such a woman for a wife, the one will always enjoy his marriage, not endure it. The Holy Bible has this to say, “A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband, but she that maketh ashamed is rottenness in his bones.” Further, the Bible asks, “Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no seed of spoil. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life”, Prov. 12:4;31:10-12. At this point I urge married men to consider their wives and their homes and consider as well the role their wives are playing. There are “good” women but few virtuous wives. You can still change your partner through serious prayers to God. This is not the subject matter of this exposition but, watch out for a great book tittled ‘Can a True Christian Practice Polygamy?” The book shall soon be published, nevertheless, let every man and woman be propelled by God to abide in the Secret Place of the Most High. Prayer is a supernatural means of relating with God, which, when offered with faith and confidence, is capable of putting in shambles every power of the principalities and powers set in motion against one’s life and destiny. Prayer without words is the key to every problem, anyone who cannot pray or doesn’t believe in prayer should not blame God if he does not find a solution to his problem because you don’t expect God to solve your problem when you do not communicate your problems to him. He has given you the ability and access to HIM through Christ. Many Christians have backslidden in prayer because of one problem or the other, to the extent that they have lost confidence in prayers due to delay, which is not denial. Some too have conclude that there is no God simply because they discovered that God has not positively answered their prayers; the fact that there is a delay in getting a solution to your problems does not mean that God does not give attention to our prayers. He hears them but sometimes he puts us to test to know if we truly have confidence and faith in Him. It is not his will that his children should suffer and die in penury. You should know that God’s time is the best. Some people can decide to make and answer midnight calls as at the time such free calls are allowed but they find it very difficult to set out a day or two to communicate with God in the midnight. God is always happy when he sees his children sacrificing the pleasure of their sleep to communicate with him, and I have discovered that every midnight cry offered through prayer does not return void. Hear this today: there is power in midnight prayer. Endeavor to always engage in midnight prayer. A particular brother came to me and told me that he was tired of praying to God because he felt that God had forgotten him. I asked him the last time he went to God in prayer. He said to me that for the past four months he has not even remembered to pray; I advised him to engage in midnight prayer, which he did. Two months later he came to me and confessed that he derives joy in praying in the midnight. I got surprised by his answer and asked him how and when he started enjoying midnight prayers, he answered and said that ever since he began to pray in the midnight things have changed in his life and that his spiritual life has been awakened. Some people are the reason for their delay in getting answers from God; do not forget that one’s evil actions can also hinder the person’s prayers from getting to God.  There was a church that invited me for a seminar. The next day, I went to the church for counselling. A certain woman came to me to counsel her. She started by narrating her problems to me and I discovered that when this woman was at the age of 19 she had a boyfriend whom she loved so dearly but due to the fact that her parents had no money to train her and her siblings in school, they decided to give her hand in marriage to one rich man. She saw that as an opportunity to milk the man dry in order to get educated, though she knew that the man was a lover of education and willing to train her to any level. As she was getting the money, she was transferring all to that her initial boyfriend to enable her save enough for their marriage. Immediately the girl graduated, the man got a befitting job for her not knowing what the girl’s intention was. He loved her very much to the extent that he opened a joint account with her, trained her siblings in school too. The girl’s boyfriend on the other hand did not know that the girl had already been married, the girl made him to understand that she was schooling. The girl was always sending cash and items to the boy. She succeeded in sucking this man dry, when the girl’s parent discovered that the man had no money left with him, they began to disregard the man by calling him all sorts of names. The man needed support from the girl and she negated him and threatened to divorce him. Months later, things remained the same; the girl sued for a divorce and got it. She left the man went and got married to that her boyfriend. On hearing it, the man slumped and died. When the girl heard about the man’s death she thanked God for removing her obstacle.  She got married to that her boyfriend. Years after, she could not bear her husband a child. Everything changed in her new home and her husband’s family members started threatening to marry another wife for their son. She prayed and prayed and prayed yet no solution came. When she finally came in contact with me, I made her realize her mistakes; she started crying and confessed to me how she treated her late husband. She started praying and asking for forgiveness from God. After counseling her, I gave her some prayer points to offer in the midnight using my anointing oil. I did instruct her to pay a visit to that her former late husband’s family and ask them for forgiveness and also confess to her husband how the money she gave to him came about, all that she did, five months later she got pregnant and delivered of a set of twins. Prayer is the active force that can disorganize things in the objective and subjective systems of reality. Any man who cannot pray has no reason to be angry in any condition he finds himself. If you continue in the midnight prayer, you can uproot strongholds of Satan in your environment. 