The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has directed  commissioners of police, especially those in Edo and Ondo states to identify, isolate, disarm, arrest and prosecute any individual(s) or group(s) in possession of prohibited firearms. The directives is coming ahead of the forthcoming gubernatorial elections scheduled for September 19 and October 10 respectively. Adamu said the directive has become necessary to curb the deliberate arming and movement of political thugs and other criminal elements by politicians across the country. He said the directive is also aimed at addressing the proliferation and unlawful possession of prohibited firearms in the country which is contrary to the provisions of Chapter F.28 LFN 2004 of the Firearms Act. The IGP’s directive contained in a statement signed by the force public relations officer Frank Mba, said the directive became necessary against the backdrop of the deliberate arming and movement of political thugs and other criminal elements across the country. “In addition, the directive is targeted at addressing the proliferation and unlawful possession of prohibited firearms in the country which is contrary to the provisions of Chapter F.28 LFN 2004 of the Firearms Act. “In a similar vein, Commissioners of Police in all the States of the Federation and the FCT have been directed to immediately convene an enlightenment meeting of all vigilante groups and quasi security outfits spread across the country in order to ensure that their activities are in conformity with the extant laws guiding their establishment and operations. “The IGP, while observing that several civil groups – vigilantes, quasi states and regional security outfits under various guises are arming themselves with prohibited firearms and weapons in contravention of the provisions of the Firearms Act, notes that the trend if unchecked, will pose serious threat to national security. The IGP enjoins citizens to cooperate with the Police in the enforcement of this order as it is aimed at ensuring safety of lives and property in the country. A forthnight ago, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had threatened to halt the elections in Edo and Ondo  if violence continues. 