Enugu State governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has emphasised the vital role of the Federal Character Commission (FCC) in implementation and enforcement of the principles of fairness and equity in the distribution of all public posts and socio-economic infrastructure, among the various federating units of the country. Gov. Ugwuanyi stressed this yesterday, at the Government House, Enugu, when he hosted the Commissioner representing Enugu State, in the Federal Character Commission, Mrs. Ginika Florence Tor, who was recently inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhrai, alongside other members of the Commission. The governor noted that the Commission is saddled with the responsibility of working out an equitable formula, subject to the approval of the president, for the distribution of all cadres of posts in the public service of the federation and of the states, the Armed Forces of the Federation, the Nigeria Police Force and other government security agencies, government owned companies and parastatals of the states, etc. He pointed out that the Commission’s responsibilities, which are apt, underscore the strategic role of the state’s representative, Mrs. Tor, “in ensuring that Enugu State is availed its fair share of posts in civil and public services of the federation”. While congratulating her on her new appointment, Gov. Ugwuanyi prayed for God’s guidance and protection, assuring her of his administration’s willingness and readiness to avail her all necessary support and collaboration to maximize the state’s opportunities in the civil and public services of the federation. “I pray that the good Lord grants you the health, presence of mind, focus and courage to enthrone a new paradigm that will expand the frontiers of Enugu State opportunities in the Federal Civil and Public Services”, the governor added. In her remark, Mrs. Tor, who was accompanied to the reception by her colleagues in the Federal Character Commission, from Abia, Anambra, Lagos, Cross River, Delta and Nasarawa states, expressed gratitude to Gov. Ugwuanyi for deeming it necessary to honour her in spite of the fact that they are in different political parties. 