After three months of marketing spend hiatus in Nigeria, Coca-Cola has made a comeback with a new campaign pushing for a better life post-pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the world in so many ways. Life isn’t what it previously was. There is now a new phenomenon –‘New Normal,’ but Coca-Cola is opting for a better normal. The campaign, tagged ‘Open Like Never Open,’ is encouraging people to think differently, embrace change, and better appreciate what was perhaps taken for granted. Simply put, it is advocating a ‘Better Normal’ to facilitate exploration of new possibilities and opportunities. The global beverage company in Nigeria temporarily suspended all planned marketing activity in April, redirecting resources towards supporting communities and supporting its most affected retail partners. Alongside its bottling partners and The Coca-Cola Foundation, the company pledged to donate more than $100 m globally to organisations leading local relief efforts and in Nigeria, it has provided a grant to the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) to help curb the spread of COVID-19. This partnership with the IFRC impacts 1.3 million people in Nigeria and other countries in the region. Open Like Never Before created and developed by 72 and Sunny Amsterdam, marks a time of cultural and social change. It begins with a manifesto written specifically for Coca-Cola by award-winning spoken word artist, George The Poet. That manifesto is founded in the promise of new possibilities discovered through lockdown and calls on us all to be “open, like never before” and to appreciate all that we have around us. The words of George encourage us to be “open to change”, to appreciate things from a new perspective and to find opportunities in this ‘new normal’. On the thought process behind the campaign, Nwamaka Onyemelukwe, Public Affairs and Communications Manager, Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited, said: “Open Like Never Before is founded in the belief that we do not have to go ‘back’ to normal. Instead we can all move forward and make the world not just different, but better. It supports and celebrates our retail partners too, including local hotels, cafes and restaurants, many of whom will be reopening their doors to communities after a very challenging time for the industry, but who have always been at the heart of our social fabric.” Walter Susini, Senior Vice President for The Coca Cola Company, Europe, Middle East and Africa Group, described the campaign as a “very simple idea” that, rather than relying on the notion of the world entering a ‘new normal’, champions optimism and the search for a “better normal”. “Being open is fundamentally a point about attitude and the importance of empathy today more than ever. The campaign is about the big philosophy of hope, inspiration and optimism we all hope will resonate with people everywhere,” Susini explained, speaking on a press briefing recently. “The campaign is made by different pieces, including the aim to support and celebrate the retail partners, small businesses and everybody that is working in the Coca-Cola system. Open Like Never Before is not just a campaign, it’s an extension of our purpose, because fundamentally our goal is to refresh the world and make a difference across community and society. Together we believe we can emerge stronger from this moment.”  Heirs Holdings appoints Dan Okeke group executive director  Pan-African investment company, Heirs Holdings, recently announced the appointment of Mr. Dan Okeke as group executive director, with immediate effect. Okeke appointment follows a distinguished three-decade career at the United Bank for Africa Plc (UBA), where he most recently served as an executive director responsible for leading consumer, commercial and public-sector businesses.At HH, he will be responsible for business coordination and growth across the portfolio of pan-African investments in power, financial services, oil and gas, hospitality, real estate, healthcare, and financial technology. Heirs Holdings is a family-owned investment company committed to improving lives and transforming Africa. Its portfolio spans the power, oil and gas, financial services, hospitality, real estate, and healthcare sectors, operating in 23 countries worldwide.Driven by the Africapitalism philosophy of the group’s founder, Tony Elumelu, which positions the private sector as the catalyst of African growth and seeks both social and economic returns on investment, Heirs Holdings invests for the long-term, bringing strategic capital, sector expertise, a track record of business turnaround accomplishment and operational excellence to companies within its investment portfolio.Celebrating its tenth anniversary this year, Heirs Holdings has recorded consistent business success across its portfolio of investments. On the appointment, Tony Elumelu, chairman, Heirs Holdings, said: “As we continue to grow in scale and complexity, Dan’s appointment demonstrates our ongoing commitment to institutionalisation. We have always recognised the need to invest in human capital. This announcement is a clear demonstration of our intent and determination to create sustainable value in all our business operations.” “I am delighted to take on this new challenge and look forward to contributing towards the fulfillment of Heirs Holdings’objective of improving lives and transforming the continent,” Okeke stated on his appointment.  Stanbic IBTC sketches out strategies for safeguarding financial future As the world continues to adapt to the ‘new normal’inspired by the COVID-19 pandemic, Nigeria’s leading financial services provider, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, a member of Standard Bank Group, has outlined strategies for businesses and individuals to safeguard their financial future in these uncertain times. Obinna Lewis-Asonye, zonal head, micro pension and agency, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, stated this during a session, tagged “Safeguarding Your Financial Future in Uncertain Times,” at the ongoing Higher Institution Football League (HiFL) Masterclass series, sponsored by Stanbic IBTC. Lewis-Asonye said that the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic has led to an increase in global inflation index and higher cost of living. He noted that the fiscal and monetary policy measures taken by most developed nations affect global liquidity and financial markets by increasing appetite for stocks and the need for a recovery of equity markets across the globe. “In Nigeria, inflation and the cost of living have skyrocketed, especially during the pandemic, as people were forced to hold on to what they had. Despite the easing of the lockdown, the cost of living remains on a high side, necessitating concrete and deliberate measures to scale through these tough times”, he said. Speaking on how businesses and individuals can safeguard their financial future amid these uncertain times, Lewis-Asonye advised Nigerians to have a pension and insurance plan, ensure financial discipline and frugality to boost savings, have a mental and health wellbeing plan and ensure diversification of investments. According to Lewis-Asonye, it is important to digitize activities, invest in foreign-denominated securities, especially the Stanbic IBTC Dollar mutual fund (SIDF) and seek professional investment advice, when needed. Furthermore, he advised Nigerians to follow robust business models, have emergency/adequate back-up plans, imbibe digital skills to remain relevant and always prepare for the future by having a valid will, which secures their estates for their beneficiaries albeit loved ones, in the event of uncertainties.  2020 Heroes Awards: Indomie’s search for extraordinary children commences nationwide Dufil Prima Foods Plc, maker of Nigeria’s premium noodles brand, Indomie Instant Noodles, has announced the kick-off of the 13th edition of its corporate social responsibility initiative: Indomie Independence Day Awards (IIDA). IIDA is a national award event that identifies, celebrates, and rewards the exemplary accomplishments of children who have shown uncommon courage and determination in precarious situations. The award encourages excellence and diligence in children. Mr. Tope Ashiwaju, group public relations and events manager, Dufil Prima Foods, noted that the field search exercise is billed to start from August 2020 and run till the third week of September 2020. According to him, “This year’s edition of the award will mark the 13th year of the noble initiative, which has impacted the lives of many Nigerian children. In typical fashion, three winners will be rewarded with N1 million worth of scholarship each from three award categories: physical, social, and intellectual bravery.” The physical bravery category will acknowledge kids who saved lives or by their actions prevented extensive damage to property or others at great personal risk. The social bravery category will celebrate kids who work against social evils such as child marriage, illiteracy, and environmental concerns in a sustained manner, while the intellectual bravery category will recognise children with innate intellect who have performed remarkably well despite their physical, mental, emotional or financial limitations.  Friska Herbal Tea engages Ariyiike Owolagba as brand ambassador Friska Farms Limited, producers of Friska Herbal Tea, has appointed one of Nigeria’s elite actors and TV presenters, Ariyiike Owolagba, popularly known as Ariyiike Dimples, as its brand ambassador. The appointment reinforces Friska Farms’ aim to promote a sustainable and healthy lifestyle for everyone, with a vision to be the leading African organic lifestyle promoter by providing natural solutions that address wellness concerns globally. According to Usman Imanah, CEO of Friska Life: “As one of Africa’s top lifestyle brands, we are committed to providing a healthy lifestyle for everyone. We are excited to welcome Ariyiike Dimples into the Friska family as she embodies the core values of the brand. “Our journey with Ariyiike officially began on August 1, 2020, and it is one we are overjoyed to be on. She brings our vision closer and draws it closer to reality through her dedication for healthy living, fitness, mental health and lifestyle,” he said. Ariyiike Dimples expressed her utmost delight at the appointment. She talked about her journey with the brand, which has yielded desired results. Earlier in the year, Ariyiike had purchased the brand’s weight loss tea and, coupled with her daily health routines and diets, she testified to great results. Friska Farms is dedicated to promoting a sustainable and healthy lifestyle, not only through its production of herbal teas (wellness tea, anti-diabetes tea, blood pressure tea and weight loss tea) but also via constant public education on various healthy lifestyle approaches. 