Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri Imo State governor, Hope Uzodimma has disclosed that the Federal Government of Nigeria is laying a good foundation for Nigerian youths to take over from today’s leaders. The governor stated this in his speech to mark the International Youth day celebration yesterday. According to him, various Federal Government’s empowerment programmes to the youths will help to shape a fruitful youth for the country. He emphasised that leaders of today also have a great role to play in supporting the Federal Government’s objectives to the youth by providing sound education and socio economic opportunities. “Youths are like a crystal ball through which we can see the future of any nation. A nation that has responsible, focused and resourceful youths has a well guaranteed future of opportunities and growth. Conversely, a nation with an irresponsible and unproductive youth population need not be told that its future is in a pillory, if not outrightly doomed. Uzodimma stated. He added “Yet it is we, the leaders of today, that must lay the solid foundation for the leaders of tomorrow. If  as leaders of today we fail to provide the youths with quality education and sound socio-economic playing field to actualize their God-given talents,  then we cannot blame them if they turn out to become unproductive and irresponsible. “So our tomorrow begins from our today. It is like the simple computer process of garbage in garbage out. What you feed into the computer is what it churns  out.  In like manner what we feed our youths is what they grow up to become. If we feed them with poor quality education or none atall, they grow up to become unanlythical, unruly and unproductive. “But it is gladdening to note that the present generation of leaders, under the able leadership of the APC led federal government of President Mohammadu Buhari , is feeding our youths with the right doses of social services for a  productive future. “With the federal government’s audacious youth empowerment programmes such as the N75B youth investment fund, the Youth skills acquisition and N- Power empowerment programmes, the Central Bank of Nigeria agricultural loan scheme and a host of other youth empowerment projects, our youths are certainly having the right incentives to grow up into responsible leaders of tomorrow. “Today we are gathered to celebrate the international day of the youth with the Nigerian youth Parliament.  The initiative of a Nigerian youth Parliament can only come from a visionary generation of youths who are conscious of their expected responsibilities as the leaders of tomorrow.” Uzodimma affirmed. 