Okey Sampson, Umuahia Youths in Ohafia, Ohafia Local Government of Abia on Friday protested
the release of Ifegwu Udo aka Lucifer, founder of the Church of Satan,
Ebem Ohafia from detention, describing him a persona non grata to the
community.
The police arrested Lucifer and 17 others and arraigned them before
Justice E. Asiago of the federal High Court, Umuahia who granted the
accused bail in the sum of N1 million each with two sureties in like
sum, one of which must be a traditional ruler or recognised chief from
Ohafia and a senior civil servant. Justice Asiago also ruled that the addresses of the sureties must be
verified to ensure that the accused present themselves in court for
trial. However, the third accused who is the founder of the Church of Satan
could not get any traditional ruler or recognised Chief from Ohafia to
surety him because of the sensitive nature of his case. Following this, Lucifer’s lawyer, Ibeka approached the court for bail
variation and the bail conditions was adjusted to include any
traditional ruler or chief and civil servant from Abia State, not
limited to Ohafia. Sunday Sun investigations revealed that as a result of the
adjustments, the family of Udo was able to get a surety from Umuahia,
who signed the bail bond for his release. Further investigations revealed that despite the fact that Lucifer,
sensing he could not be welcomed back to Ohafia, moved to Okigwe, Imo
State, yet youths in Ohafia protested on Friday, declaring him a
persona non grata. Speaking about the protest and banishment of Lucifer, the president of
Ohafia youths, Obasi said, “After the incident in Ohafia in which the
police station, high and magistrate courts were burnt, we discovered
after investigation that the policeman who killed the trader
apprentice that triggered the protest came out from Lucifer’s brothel
where he got himself drunk before he shot dead the young man. “Since he was arrested, calm returned to Ohafia, but on Monday we
heard he (Lucifer) was released, the same day, an okada rider in
Ohafia was killed and his motor cycle made away with. The youths then
said if Lucifer could be released and the same day somebody was
killed, it then means there will not be peace in Ohafia if he
returns”. Obasi said since creation, nobody in Ohafia was known by the name
Lucifer, adding that since the name was strange to Ohafia, it means
the person bearing it is a stranger and “this is why the youths are
saying no to Lucifer, they don’t want him again”. Obasi said Ndi Ezie Ogo (ruling chiefs) in Ohafia were in support of
what the youths are doing and have authorized them to deal decisively
with Lucifer wherever he is seen in Ohafia. “The Ezie Ogos are in total support of our action, we embarked on the
peaceful protest to tell Lucifer he has been banished from Ohafia. We
are saying no to Lucifer, he is a bad influence to youths in Ohafia. The youth leader foreclosed any brokering of peace between Ohafia
youths and Lucifer for now, insisting that if the founder of the
Church of Satan could be pardoned and allowed to return to Ohafia, it
will be after 10 years according to the custom of the people. “Ever
since he was away, our people have been sleeping with their two eyes
closed, so, there is no point wanting him back”, Obasi said. 