John Adams, Minna Following the approval by the federal government for the reopening of schools for exist classes, the National Examination Council (NECO) has announced dates for the conduct of all its examinations, starting with the Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE) on the 25the of August.
This will be immediately followed by the Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSCE) slated for October 5th and will end on November 18th, 2020.
The Registrar and Chief Executive of NECO, Professor Godswill Obioma who announced this while briefing newsmen in Minna on Tuesday said the council has in line with the new dates, prepared a comprehensive examinations time table for the scheduled examinations in harmonization with the West African Examination Council (WAEC) and the National Board for Technical Education Board (NABTEB).
According to the new time table, the National Common Entrance Examinations for JSS1 qualifying Examinations into unity schools will now take place on Saturday 17th, October 2020.
The Registrar disclosed that in order to ensure that the Examinations are conducted in an environment that is safe for candidates and officials, as well as other stakeholders, “NECO has prepared a manual on guideline for preparation for schools for conduct of public examinations in the context of COVID 19”.
These guidelines, he pointed out, covers roles of responsibilities and expectations of various stakeholders which includes, schools proprietors, schools principals and mangers, parents and guardians, examination candidates, supervisors and invigilators.
In view of the new time table, the Examinations Council said registration of Candidates for all its Examinations is still ongoing with the registration for Basic Education Certificate Examinations (BECE) now to end on Friday 21st August, three days to the commencement of the first paper.
In addition to this, the registration for the National Common Entrance Examinations will now end on Friday, 10th of October, while registration SSCE will now end on the end on the 10th of September.
Professor Obioma maintained that despite the challenge posed by the COVID 19 pandemic, the Examinations Council has put in place measures that would ensure appropriate standards and excellence before, during and after the Examinations inline with the mission to deliver Examinations whose results are trusted world-wide for their credibility.
In achieving this, the Registrar disclosed that “all our Examination officials are now mandatorily required to sign an oath of allegiance as requirement to participate in their respective roles and responsibilities”. 