Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja The European Union (EU) under its Erasmus+ programme has awarded scholarship to over 90 Nigerians to study in European universities. The EU Delegation to Nigeria and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) disclosed the development in a statement made available to Daily Sun in Abuja. The EU said the scholarship awarded to young Nigerians, was for various master degree programmes in universities across Europe under its Erasmus Mundus Joint Master Degrees programme. ‘This prestigious international study programme is part of the EU’s flagship educational and training programme, Erasmus+, which supports education, training, youth and sport in Europe. ‘The latest number of beneficiaries is the highest to receive the scholarship in a single year, and represents a 125 percent increase from the number that benefited from the programme last year. Each of the over 90 students will study for and earn a masters degree to be jointly awarded by a consortium of top grade European universities,’ the EU said. Commenting on the scholarship award, the Head of the EU Delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS, Ambassador Ketil Karlsen, said the scholarship award reflected the EU’s strong commitment to expanding opportunities for Nigerians. ‘The number of students selected for the programme this year is record high and reflects the EU’s strong commitment to expanding opportunities for Nigerians, especially the youth. There can be no better way of investing in, and creating development opportunities for young Nigerians,’ Karlsen said. The EU further said increasing number of Nigerians have been studying in Europe under different EU scholarship schemes over the past decade. The EU also said apart from scholarships, the Erasmus+ programme offered different opportunities for people of all ages, helping them develop and share knowledge and experiences at institutions and organisations across all the countries that make up the EU. ‘The Erasmus+ also aims to promote the sustainable development of its partners in the field of higher education, and contribute to achieving the objectives of the EU Youth Strategy. ‘This seeks to tackle unemployment, especially among young people; promote adult learning, especially for new skills and skills required by the labour market, as well as encourage young people to take part in European democracy. ‘Erasmus+ also supports innovation, cooperation and reform, as well as the promotion of cooperation and mobility with the EU’s partner countries. ‘Part of the main changes introduced in this year include a new action supporting experimental models to increase the performance, attractiveness and competitiveness of higher education institutions on a European scale; while a specific Lot under Sector Skills Alliances supports the development of sectoral approaches through platforms of vocational excellence.’ 