The traditional ruler  of Anwain in Etsako Central Local Government Area of Edo State, Mufutairu Iyoha Oare, has assured the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Godwin Obaseki, that whatever he desired from members of the Anwain community, will be double for him in the election. ”We don’t need to pray for you. Your performance has already done the prayers. You have given us reason to have faith in government and you’ve shown everybody the stuff you’re made of. In this life, it is those who remember you that you will work and labour for. “Mr. governor, we are assuring you that you are at home. This community road has been a disaster for over a thousand years until your intervention. We were cut off from Edo State until you gave us good road that integrated us back as members of the state. We cannot forget such gesture. Government comes and go and no government remembered that we exist. But Obaseki came and connected us back to the state through good road”, the traditional ruler said. He recalled that it took 24 hours to come out from the community to the main road but today the story is no more the same, adding that “in less than an hour, you can now approach various parts of the state due to good network of roads. “Your Excellency, we were preparing to receive you as carnival on the 12th of this month but you came today, otherwise you would have known what is called a reception of honour. Go to other areas to campaign, you don’t need to campaign in this community because this community has no other option than the PDP. Any where Obaseki /Shaibu stand, that’s where the entire Anwain community will stand”, the monarch added. Governor Obaseki, while thanking the people for their warm reception and endorsement, said the essence of fixing the road is to enable and encourage mechanized farming which would attract investors and development to the community. He also promised the people that next on his agenda for the community is education, that he has made necessary plans for structures to start. 