Rose Ejembi, Makurdi A Gubernatorial Aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 election in Benue State, Arc. Asema Achado has urged all Benue people to team up and condemn the herdsmen attacks in the state irrespective of party affiliation. Achado who stated this in a statement he personally signed and made available to newsmen in Makurdi on Saturday that many people in Benue are more interested in discussing the politics of these heinous attacks than the damage they have visited on Benue, by apportioning blames and counter blames, as though the herders attack only members of a particular tribe, group or political party. “Seeing gory pictures of Benue farmers butchered by herdsmen in Kwande a few days ago has pricked my heart and provoked in me, tragic feelings. Corpses of men and women were mutilated obnoxiously. While describing the arguments as uncalled for, the APC chieftain noted that, “in times of extreme carnage and troubles, we need to team up to resist an invading enemy rather than cut ourselves to pieces. He maintained that herdsmen attacks all over Nigeria have become a recurrent tragedy adding that in Benue, no year passes by without such attacks, for many years now. “While people from other states are battling with this same problem and finding internal solutions, we seem to be putting too much politics into our quest for solutions, rather than attempting a coordinated approach to confront the problem headlong. “Provision of security is the primary function of government at all levels but we all have our roles to play by volunteering information and rising to the occasion in necessary ways. Achado acknowledged the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari and the Nigerian Army through Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS) in Benue but pointed out that the number of people still living in the IDP camps and the influx of armed herdsmen into Benue show that more still needs to be done. He further commended the Benue State Government for the Anti Open Grazing Law which he noted, “is aimed at ensuring modern ways of animal husbandry in the state but more sincere implementation is needed, distancing the law from politics. “People of the South West have put before us a very big difference between party politics and common interest. By embracing the Amotekun Security Network, the Yoruba, irrespective of political affiliation have sent a stern signal that they are willing to safeguard their people and their party differences could wait. Why can’t we do same in Benue? “I call on people of the state to put politics behind them and collectively emancipate the citizenry from the trouble that is enveloping us. “As an ardent member of the All Progressives Congress, I plead with the APC led Federal government to take more proactive steps in bringing the resurging security situation in Nigeria and Benue in particular under control. Outside this security situation, Nigerians have very little negatives to talk about our party and government. “Herdsmen do not spare APC, PDP, APGA or SDP members and the earlier we remove politics from the attacks, the more united we will be in confronting the marauders,” Achado concluded.