Judex Okoro, Calabar Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State has sworn-in Justice Maurice Eneji as the acting Chief Judge of the state. This follows the non-confirmation on Monday of Justice Akon Ikpeme as the substantive Chief Judge of the state by the Cross River State House of Assembly. Swearing Eneji at the state executive council chamber in Calabar on Tuesday, Ayade said it was imperative as law and nature abhors a vacuum, adding that the decision was not in any way based on sentiments. “I congratulate you on your appointment. I urge you to dispense justice without fear or favour. You have to have fairness of mind. The law is blind and should not be sensitive to religion, ethnicity, colour or any other affiliation,” the Governor charged the new judge. “We ask that the leadership of the judiciary under your watch should be very exemplary and should be such that every other state would like to emulate. We know your background and believe that you are competent and capable and worthy of this office. “Cross River State is known for fairness, equity and what is fair. We are opposed to anything that is repugnant to natural justice. Our people are not known for bias and prejudices,” Ayade said. Reacting to the rumour making the rounds that Justice Ikpeme was not confirmed by the House of Assembly because she is from Akwa Ibom State, the Governor said he has taken several decisions in the past to ensure equity and fairness in the distribution of government positions so as to have balanced representation across the senatorial zones in the state. He cited instances where he insisted on the position of the Provost of College of Education, Akamkpa, be given to a southern candidate even when a candidate from the north had the highest scores. He further said he similarly overlooked a northerner in the choice of Head of Service when he assumed office, preferring a southerner instead just to avoid having a lop-sided government with key officials coming from a particular zone. According to the Ayade, “Currently, I have over 20 non-Cross Riverians holding various appointments in my government. Some of the appointees are from far-flung states like Kano, Imo, Edo to as close as Akwa Ibom State, which has a commissioner in my cabinet. I am not known or given to sectionalism or tribalism. I believe in equity.” Responding, the new acting Chief Judge promised to enthrone a number of reforms that will aide justice delivery in the state. “I promise to be a listening judge. My appointment came to me as a beautiful surprise. The sacred duty of a judge is to listen before adjudicating. I also promise that the judiciary under me will be tough on criminals,” Judge Eneji stated.