The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC) has raised the alarm over attempts by certain group of lawyers  and their sponsors to  short-change  Nigeria.  EFCC warned  that the Commission would not allow anyone to  defraud the country over the controversial claim of £2.5billion. The Commission  strongly condemned a calculated attempt  by a group  of 27 lawyers to blackmail one of its lead prosecutors, Mr. Rotimi Jacob( SAN),  on the  contentious  £2.5billion, insisting that Jacobs is a reputable lawyer  who has successfully prosecuted several high-profile cases for the EFCC. The 27 lawyers, had in a petition addressed to the National Executive  of the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA,  alleged that Jacobs was using the EFCC to arrest,  harass and intimidate them for winning a monetary suit against the Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN), and Union Bank of Nigeria Plc. Speaking through Mr. Onyechi Egwuonwu, the 27 lawyers further alleged that the Union Bank induced the EFCC and Jacobs  to file criminal charges against their client,  Petro Union  Oil, in order to frustrate the execution  of the judgment. EFCC  dismissed  the claim, describing it as false and misleading. The EFCC said: “For  the purpose of clarity,  the purported  £2.5billion is a fictitious fund Petro Union Oil drew against  an account  in Barclays Bank( United Kingdom) through a cheque issued in 1994. “The company made a fraudulent attempt to present the cheque for clearing  through Union Bank  ,but enquiries made by Union Bank  at Barclays Bank  showed that the account against which the cheque was drawn  was closed  in 1989,  five years before the cheque  was presented in Lagos for clearing.  Besides, the company  had also been voluntarily dissolved  by its promoters in the United Kingdom.  The same promoters are the mastermind of Petro Union oil. “For some inscrutable reasons,  Petro Union Oil was able to procure a court judgment for the  £2.5billion against the CBN and Union Bank  on the basis of an alleged CBN Statement of Account when it is elementary that the CBN, like all Central Banks across the world, does not maintain accounts for private entities.  Based on the foregoing, the EFCC filed a 7-count charge against Petro Union oil  and its directors and trial is ongoing at the Federal High Court. “It should be pointed out that, the publication alleging  intimidation and harassment by the lawyers  is a desperate attempt by the shady elements and their promoters to divert attention from  their ongoing trial and frustrate the EFCC in its determination  to rid the country of corrupt and manipulative elements , including the  lawyers and other professionals who lent their names to aid the fraud.