Molly Kilete, Abuja The Nigerian Army said its soldiers engaged in the counter-terrorism operations in the North East have thwarted terrorists’ attempt to attack one of its military bases at Damboa in Borno State.
The army said the soldiers killed 19 of the terrorists, wounded several others and recovered several arms and ammunition from them.
Media coordinator in charge of Nigerian Army Operations, Colonel Aminu Iliyasu, however, said  3 soldiers lost their lives during the encounter while four others were injured in the battle. Illiyasu said the wounded soldiers had since been evacuated to a military medical facility for where they were being treated.
Iliyasu in a statement said: “A misguided attempt by some criminal Boko Haram elements to attack the troops of 25 Task Force Brigade (Army Super Camp 2) located in Damboa LGA of Borno State has met a crushing defeat in the hands of the resilient troops. The marauding criminals mounted on gun trucks and with a number of their foot soldiers attempted to infiltrate the troops’ location from three different fronts in the early hours of 4 March 2020. The troops responded swiftly, bringing to bear superior firepower against the criminals in conjunction with the Air Task Force Operation LAFIYA DOLE. The encounter which lasted over an hour witnessed one of the most debilitating defeats of the Boko Haram criminals in a single encounter since the turn of the year. So far, 19 Boko Haram criminals’ corpses have been recovered while many more were observed escaping with various degrees of gunshot wounds by the troops who are on vigorous exploitation of their initial success along the criminals’ withdrawal route.  Interestingly, the gallant troops captured from the Boko Haram criminals’ 5 AK 47 rifles, one general-purpose machine gun and one rocket-propelled gun tube. Regrettably, 3 valiant soldiers paid the supreme prize while four others were wounded in action. However, the wounded in action soldiers have been evacuated to a military medical facility for immediate and effective management.
“To this end, the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai hereby congratulates the troops of Operation LAFIYA DOLE for their decisive victory against the enemies of our country. He further urges them to remain steadfast, loyal and resolute in the discharge of their professional responsibilities. He further reassures the residents of Damboa and indeed the North East at large of the unflinching resolve of troops of Operation LAFIYA DOLE in protecting the lives and properties of all law- abiding citizens.”