The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission,  EFCC, has written to the PUNCH (Nig)  Limited (Publishers of PUNCH  Newspapers), asking it to retract a libelous publication against the Acting Chairman of the commission, Mr Ibrahim Magu or be sued. The EFCC is also demanding  an unreserved apology from The PUNCH over alleged defamatory  publication against Magu. In a letter addressed to the Managing Editor/Editor- In- Chief of the paper, Mr. Ademola Osinubi,  and signed by its  Secretary,  Mr.  Ola Olukoyede,  the EFCC described as libellous, vexatious,  defamatory and damaging,  a piece written by Abimbola Adelakun on Magu on March 5, 2020 and entitled: “The Real Trouble With Magu”. The letter dated March 6, 2020 was received by The PUNCH on March 17, 2020. According to Olukoyede,  Magu, as a substantive Commissioner of Police and internationally recognised Anti- corruption czar” and who “has discharged his responsibilities with absolute dedication and resourcefulness” does not deserve “ reckless use of libellous and defamatory words by Abimbola Adelakun.” The Secretary to the Commission is therefore demanding  “a retraction of the libellous words and tendering of unreserved apology in a conspicuous place in your newspaper within seven days”. Olukoyede listed several libellous words contained in Adelakun’s piece and warned that the EFCC would not hesitate to commence litigation against The PUNCH,  if the two demands were not met within the stipulated time. Olukoyede said The PUNCH and Adelakun will have to prove in court, the justification for the libelous and defamatory words against the EFCC boss. The letter read in part: “For the avoidance of doubt, Adelakun’s usage of defamatory and libelous words have damaged the integrity of Mr Magu in the eyes of Nigerians and outside world. “Magu has no plans—from now to the unforeseeable future—to sharpen himself. And there is the real trouble with him: he did not get his job on merit, he knows his assessment for his continued fit for that office is not based on superior achievements and, therefore, he has no motivation whatsoever to improve his intellect.” “There are gazillion books on corruption out there for him to read and understand what corruption is, not only within the local Nigerian milieu but also as a global phenomenon. “Nothing about Magu’s rant demonstrates that he has ever cared to develop an abstract understanding of corruption.” “We therefore demand a retraction of the libelous words and tendering of unreserved apology in conspicuous place in your newspaper within seven days. “Please note that the Commission will not hesitate to commence litigation without recourse to you if our demands are not met within the stipulated time.