Godwin Tsa, Abuja The leadership crisis rocking the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) has shifted to Court of Appeal where the Abuja division of the court will tomorrow (Monday) commence hearing in an appeal by the embattled National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole. In the appeal, Oshiomhole is seeking among others, the reversal of his suspension by a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Justice Danlami Senchi, had in an interlocutory ruling last Wednesday, ordered among others, that Oshiomhole should desist from parading himself as the APC Chairman. Daily Sun findings revealed that the Court of Appeal’s Registry communicated the hearing date to parties via hearing notices sent to them earlier this week. The appeal which is predicated on four grounds is contesting the ruling of Justice Senchi stating that he erred in law and arrived at a wrong conclusion, which occasioned a miscarriage of justice by placing him on suspension at an interlocutory stage of a suit instituted against him by some aggrieved members of the party. Oshiomhole also argued that the High Court further erred in law when it decided that he, in the performance of his duties as APC National Chairman, would interfere in the court action filed against him by the aggrieved members. He argued that the issue of duties as APC National Chairman is a matter which arose from substantive issues for determination and claim and ought not to have been determined at the interlocutory stage of the main matter. Oshiomhole claimed that the trial judge erred in law and arrived at a wrong conclusion, which occasioned a miscarriage when after ordering the filing of pleadings and immediately set down motion for interlocutory injunction for hearing in the absence of pleadings. He further faulted the suspension order against him on the grounds that the trial court determined the motion for interlocutory injunction without recourse to triable issues, which ought to have been discerned from pleadings. Respondents in the appeal are: APC National Vice Chairman (Northeast) Mustapha Saliu, Edo State APC Chairman, Anselm Ojezua, Alhaji Sani Gomna, Mr Oshawo Stephen, Mr. Fani Wabulari and Mr. Princewill Ejogharado. Others are the Inspector General of Police and the State Security Service.