Heritage Bank Plc has taken steps to offer seamless services to customers, just as it safeguards the health and safety of its workers and others at the workplace. The bank has also puts a crisis response measures in place to minimise and manage the risk arising from the new Coronavirus and ensure that the payment infrastructure and logistics to maintain operations are going as various states brace up for lockdown to contain the pandemic. Its management in a statement explained that part of its business continuity management emanating from Heritage Bank’s corporate strategy was to guarantee seamless service delivery to the various stakeholders, adopt measures to tackle significant business risk that might have growth impact on economy, whilst taken reasonably practicable steps to minimize the risk. According to the statement, in cognizant of the protocols proffered by the World Health Organisation, (WHO), Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and other health agencies, Heritage Bank provided a work environment that is without risk to health and safety and adequate facilities for workers in carrying out their work, so far as is reasonably practicable. The statement noted that the bank has maintained a maximum of 10% of staff who constitute mainly Units heads and “must have” working from its premises during these times of uncertainties, whilst others work remotely from home to adhere to the social distancing directive. The bank further noted that efforts have been ongoing via its intranet and other channels to keep staff and customers up-to-date with the latest COVID-19 information and provide clear direction and guidance expected of workers and customers. “We have enforced and continued to monitor the need for workers to practice good hygiene, including:  frequent hand washing, use of sanitizer,  limiting contact with others, including through shaking hands covering their mouths while coughing or sneezing require workers to stay away from the workplace if they are unwell and not fit for work, and encourage them to seek medical advice as appropriate seek advice from health authorities immediately if there has been a confirmed case of COVID-19 and for staff who are arriving from affected countries to self-quarantine for 14days,” the financial institution stated. To ensure seamless banking transactions, the bank explained that customers are constantly communicated to, to adopt its available 24/7 alternate electronic channels. “We have encouraged our customers to adopt the self-service platforms “We have setup a COVID-19 Support Centre to offer COVID-19 safety tips to all our customers during this period, in support of the efforts of the Government and relevant bodies. Please send any information relating to the COVID-19 pandemic via these channels: E-mail: HeritageBankCovid19Support@hbng.com  and contact number:   01-2369099,” the bank explained. 