(Ripples Nigeria) The Ogun State Government on Thursday ordered the closure of all public and private schools in the state. The government also extended its ban on high-density gatherings to religious centres. A statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Kunle Somorin, said all schools in the state would remain closed indefinitely starting from Monday. The statement read: “Due to the global spread of the Coronavirus and the recent ban of all high-density gatherings in Ogun State, the state government wishes to clarify that the ban on high-density gatherings affects all schools, including public and private schools in the state, as well as all religious activities in the state. “Also, all religious centres and activities including regular and special services that bring together 50 or more persons in the same place are banned with immediate effect. “These measures will be reviewed at regular intervals in response to the development surrounding the Coronavirus. “The government, therefore, enjoins all parents and guardians who have their children and wards in any boarding facility within the state to immediately evacuate them and return them to their respective homes at the close of schools on Friday, March 20th, 2020”. “Governor Dapo Abiodun thankfully acknowledges and appreciates religious leaders for their advice, understanding, solidarity and support, as we jointly search for solution to the pandemic and for their cooperation to observe all safety measures in the overall interest of our state and common humanity. “Government emphasises the need to observe global best practice of social distancing as way of curtailing the spread of the pandemic and recommended that as much as possible, people should minimize contact with others and maintain a distance of at least five feet between one another in public places or in public transportation. In addition, nonessential travels should be limited whilst also avoiding high-density gatherings. “Governor Abiodun pleads for the understanding of parents, school owners and the entire citizenry to comply fully with all laid down measures and for them to offer useful information for the state to respond appropriately to the COVID-19 challenge. “The governor further encourages people to maintain a high level of personal hygiene and surveillance. He added that suspected cases should be reported at the nearest Primary Healthcare Centre (PHCs) in all the 236 wards in the State or the Emergency Operations Centre on COVID-19 by telephone on 08188978393 or 08188978392.”