Toks David, Lagos Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Monday morning visited the scene of the pipeline explosion that devasted the Abule-Ado area of Lagos State on Sunday, creating a major conflagration that gutted large swathes of property and left several victims in its wake. The state has set up a N2 billion relief fund for the Abule-Ado victims. The governor, who spoke during a visit, also set up a committee headed by his deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, with a two-week deadline to submit its report. The scale of the pipeline explosion was such that the Lagos State Fire Service responders were still battling to extinguish pockets of the fire 24 hours after the incident which the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) said was as a result of a disruption in a pipeline of a Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). The Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Mr Mele Kyari, in an update on the disaster on Monday, said that the NNPC pipeline fire “reignited at 5:10 am by residual fires in the neighbourhood.” He mentioned that a combined team of “NNPC, NN, LASG and FFS have effectively controlled the fire and steps taken to forestall any reignition,” adding that the Managing Director of the Nigerian Pipelines and Storage Company Limited (NPSC) was onsite with the Lagos State governor for a reassessment. Lagos explosion update: NNPC pipeline fire reignited at 5.10am by residual fires in the neigborhood. Combined team of NNPC, NN, LASG and FFS have effectively controlled the fire and steps taken to forestall any reignition. MD NPSC onsite with Gov of Lagos for reassessment — Mele Kyari (@MKKyari) March 16, 2020  Earlier on Monday, the Director-General of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) Mr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, giving an update on the incident commiserated with the affected families, saying that efforts are on to evacuate the casualties. He also expressed concern that the fire has displaced several residents who fled their homes for fear of being caught in the inferno. Gas explosion in Abule Ado, Festac area of Lagos State. Leaving at least 15 people dead and several others injured. Multiple houses and cars also affected. #abuleado #festacexplosion @cnbcafrica @AFPphoto @BBCBreaking @BBCAfrica @CNNAfrica pic.twitter.com/mqV0rMpBFQ — Olalekan Olafusi (@black_able) March 15, 2020  The Director-General confirmed that secondary explosions occurred at the location of the fire and caused significant damage to multiple buildings, including a Church that was razed. St. Margaret’s Girls Hostel close to the site was also affected. Oke-Osanyintolu said all rescue and recovery Agencies including the Lagos State and Federal Fire Services personnel, Lagos State Safety Commission, Lagos State Building Control Agency, as well as the Ministry of Special Duties, are still clearing the debris of the incident. He said that 17 bodies have so far been recovered from the rubble while 25 injured people are being treated for injuries at the site. “We sympathise with the families of the dead, and wish the injured quick recovery and appeal for calm. Our operations are still in progress and we will provide updates throughout this process while investigations continue”, Oke-Osanyintolu said. He said that 17 bodies have so far been recovered from the rubble while 25 injured people are being treated for injuries at the site. Oke-Osanyintolu said all rescue and recovery Agencies including the Lagos State and Federal Fire Services personnel, Lagos State Safety Commission, Lagos State Building Control Agency, as well as the Ministry of Special Duties, are still clearing the debris of the incident. Meanwhile, Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said that he has “instructed the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency to immediately release personal safety materials to the people living around the area especially to first responders and all safety workers at ground zero. We will continue to monitor the situation.” The governor added that: “We are working with NEMA, NNPC and other agencies to make life easier for everyone affected in the tragic incident at Abule Ado which claimed lives and caused extensive property damage. I offer my condolences to everyone affected.”