The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has granted a two week market holidays to the Bureaux De Change operators. This followed a request by the Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria to the CBN for the regulator to grant it market holidays given the ongoing challenges faced in local and global economies due to the impact of the Coronavirus (COVID -19) pandemic. In a notice  to BDC operators and directors,  ABCON President, Alhaji Aminu Gwadabe, said the CBN’s approval meant that sales of foreign exchange to BDCs is now suspended till further notice. Gwadabe also advised the  public not to go into panic buying, hoarding  and partronasing  the street traders as  the CBN has enough reserves to sustain supplies when the BDCs return to operations. The CBN had also acknowledged the contributions of BDCs in promoting stable exchange rate in recent months despite challenging circumstances facing the Forex market due to drop in crude oil prices. “This is to urgently bring to the notices of our members nation wide that following our letter of Recommendations to the CBN to grant us a market holidays on our bidding days as a proactive and preventive measures on the scourge of the novel Covid 19 epidemic and the ban on all Air/land travels. The CBN has granted our request,effective tomorrow Friday March 27,   2020,there shall be no market days henceforth for a tentative period of two weeks”. Gwadabe advised members to observe strict guidelines on the preventive measures on the dangers of the Covid 19, wear their mask, gloves, and frequent washing of hands. “We also want to advise members to  strictly  comply with their regulatory obligations on their daily operation.if you are trading be cautious not to fall under the hand of security agencies.Dont be involved in giving black market rates,street trading  as doing so might create regulatory breach,” he said. Gwadabe said that  CBN/NFIU are tracking large movements of funds within the financial sector and the need to be cautious. “Once again accept our continuous assurances on serving you betters as we continue to ponder on lasting solutions to the growing challenges facing our operations amongst them crowd management, expansion of scope of our buisiness, lesser penalties, automation, among others,” he stated.