PHILIP NWOSU  The Nigerian Army has called on the Nigerians to emulate the force in terms of fostering unity and cohesion, and work towards tackling national challenges. The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. -Gen. Tukur Buratai,  said that the Nigerian Army would continue to use the platform of the West African Social Activities (WASA) and push for the unity of the country. General Buratai spoke  at the combined WASA organised by the 81 Division of the force and the headquarters of the  Nigerian Army Engineers saying  that the cultural affinity preached by WASA should serve as a cohesive force that will bring the country together to tackle  the challenges confronting it. His words: “This is a complete Nigerian community, there’s nobody or there is no culture or tradition that is not present in virtually every barracks and cantonment of the Nigerian Army. “We always use this opportunity to harness these cultural affinities for us to wax together as a single community, not only to administer ourselves within the barracks. “Also, it is to serve  a cohesive force that will stand and face all the challenges confronting our country,this is quite unique and this is what we stand to always foster.” The Army Chief also said that  “In order to ensure unity in our country, in order to ensure we have the best in terms of community integration, cultural integration and of course cultural development. “We will continue to foster this very important unifying factor within the Nigerian Army and, indeed and  by extension, within  the Nigeria society.” Buratai also urged the  commanders of different units to promote the bond of unity and understanding, saying that it was the only way to sustain professionalism in discharging their constitutional responsibility. “I want to urge all commanders to,  at all times, ensure that this bond of unity is always promoted. “And this is how we will continue to sustain the professionalism and responsiveness in the discharge of our constitutional responsibilities,” he said. He also tasked the officers on continued loyalty, dedication and discipline. “I want to urge all the officers and men to remain loyal to the government, remain dedicated, remain disciplined and be your brother’s keepers,” he said. He added that such occasions as the WASA,  also called for a  reflection, especially, in adminstrative and operational activities. Also,  Maj.-Gen. Olubunmi Irefin, the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division, in his opening speech said that though the outgone year was challenging in training, it brought about positive gains. “The 2019 training activities, though challenging, was very interesting for  the Nigeria Army. “And for the  81 Division Area of Responsibility,   all the various training exercises programmed for the year were successfully held as scheduled with positive gains,”he said. Irefin noted that the successes achieved in 2019 would be leveraged on in 2020. Also, Maj.-Gen. JS Malu, the Corp Commander, Nigerian  Army Engineers said that it would double its efforts in line with the COAS strategic directives which aimed to sustain professionalism. No fewer than 25 officers from different units within the 81 Division received various awards  for their outstanding performance interms of discipline commitment and professionalism in the outgone year. 