Fred Ezeh, Abuja; Doris Obinna, Toks David, Lagos A third case of the novel Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has been identified in Nigeria, confirmed by the Federal Government during an update by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Tuesday. Health Minister Osagie Ehanire announced the case Tuesday morning at a press briefing as a Nigerian woman who returned to Lagos from the UK and “developed symptoms during her 14-day self-isolation.” The Lagos State Ministry of Health also announced the case on Twitter. Breaking!Third case of #COVID19NIGERIA confirmed in Lagos. – This is a new case independent of the index case– 30 year old Nigerian, female– Returned from the UK on 13th March– Observed self-Isolation, developed symptoms– Tested positive – Now at Mainland GH receiving care pic.twitter.com/f8osZk4Ba4 — LSMOH (@LSMOH) March 17, 2020  “The third case of COVID-19 confirmed in Lagos is a new case independent of the index case. A 30-year old Nigerian, female, who returned from the United Kingdom (UK) on March 13, observed self-Isolation, developed symptoms.” The Federal Ministry of Health said in a statement that the lady developed symptoms of fever and cough on March 16. The NCDC disclosed that the patient tested positive of the novel Coronavirus and is at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Yaba, Lagos. The Honourable Minister @Fmohnigeria has announced the 3rd case of #COVID19 in Nigeria The case is a Nigerian who returned to Lagos from UK & developed symptoms during her 14-day self-isolation She is clinically stable & is being treated at Infectious Disease Hospital, Lagos pic.twitter.com/eRKAAx3JzK — NCDC (@NCDCgov) March 17, 2020  The latest case, according to a statement from the Federal Ministry of Health, had voluntarily called the NCDC’s toll-free call line to report her condition. “Afterwards, officials from the Lagos State Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) were immediately dispatched to her home to collect samples, which upon testing, came out positive for the coronavirus. “The lady is currently at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH) in Yaba, Lagos, where she has remained clinically stable and is responding to treatment,” the statement reads. The government said that intensive contact-tracing has begun to help identify all persons who the patient has been in contact with since her return. “We expect the number to be small, because of her sensible decision to go into self-isolation from the time of her arrival.” The Federal Government on Monday had reconfirmed that the index case of COVID-19 in the country, an Italian ex-pat, has shown impressive clinical stability and might be discharged anytime in the week. It also announced that three new countries have been added to the existing list of five high-risk countries with widespread community transmission of the novel Coronavirus. The new additions are France, Spain and Germany, while five countries in the prior list are China, Japan, Iran, Italy and the Republic of Korea. Minister of State for Health Dr Olurunimbe Mamaora, who addressed journalists in Abuja, explained that travellers from the eight countries would face minor inconveniences at points of entry, particularly at airports, because they would be forced to undergo compulsory secondary screenings in addition to strong advise for self-isolation for 14 days on entry. The minister confirmed that between the 7th and 15th of March, forty-eight people who met the case definition have been screened for COVID-19 in eight states of Edo, Lagos, Ogun, FCT, Yobe, Rivers, Kano and Enugu. “47 tested negative and have been cleared. One was positive, which was the contact of the index case, and one result is pending. There is no death so far,” he said.