Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri Leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Nnamdi Kanu has disclosed the plan by his group to stage a million man march in Capitol Hill, Washington DC, USA for the agitation of Biafra and condemnation of various insecurity challenges in Nigeria, as well as the recent decisions of the Supreme Court. Media and Publicity Secretary of IPOB, Emma Powerful disclosed this in a press statement he made available to newsmen in Owerri, yesterday. According to the statement, “the global and indomitable family of the Indigenous People of Biafra, ably led by our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu wish to humbly notify Biafrans, friends of Biafra, persecuted Judeo-Christian communities in Nigeria, victims of terrorism and state sponsored genocide, including all who are reeling from brutal land grabbing tendencies of the vandals from the Sahel, about the upcoming IPOB One Million Man Match scheduled to hold in Washington DC on 20th of June 2020. “Our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and his entourage will lead this march of Biafrans, the forcefully dispossessed, all victims of religious persecution, the enslaved and oppressed minorities in Northern Nigeria, friends of Biafra and lovers of freedom all over the world on the match towards the liberation of victims of neo-colonial subjugation in Nigeria on that fateful day near Capitol Hill, Washington USA.” The pro-Biafra group wants all Igbo, Christians to take part in the protest match. “We are delighted to announce that we have sought and have been granted relevant permits by the various US  state and federal law enforcement agencies in Washington DC, Maryland and Virginia as millions of Biafrans and non-Biafrans, persecuted Christian communities from across the globe are expected to storm Washington DC for this once in a lifetime march to draw global attention to the unspeakable human misery and rivers of blood flowing throughout Biafra land and Nigeria at large.” He noted further “IPOB’s determination to set free all captives is unwavering and relentless. We have reached many and are continuing to reach out to all representatives, groups and associations of marginalised, oppressed and subdued communities across Nigeria domicilled in the USA to be part of this historic event. “This unique event in Washington DC will bring home to politicians and policy makers in Capitol Hill the true state of deplorable human rights abuses, lawlessness in Nigeria. The reign of terrorism, despotism, impunity, genocide against Judeo-Christian ethnic groups and judicial rascality of the Supreme Court of Nigeria will be laid bare for the American audience to fully grasp the level of evil going on in Nigeria.” Powerful added that the march would also afford IPOB an opportunity to demonstrate its unsurpassed global might and prove to the entire world how serious, determined  and focussed the group is towards the enthronement of universal freedom, democracy and rule of law for all, not just for Biafrans alone. “Only after this march will the world finally appreciate the level of human misery and pain inflicted by a violent minority from the core Sharia Arewa North on the rest of the populations unfortunate enough to find themselves trapped in the British Colonial Experiment (BCE) gone wrong called Nigeria. “What is happening today in Nigeria, is far worse than what obtained during the darkest days of apartheid in South Africa. All the ethnic cleansing going on in the Middle Belt, religious persecution of Christians in the north, genocide in South and forceful Islamisation of Christian enclaves will be better appreciated by opinion leaders right across the world after this march”, the group alleged. The IPOB spokesman also said “The public in the USA will finally know that both Nigeria Senate and House of Representatives are busy promoting laws to give greater funding to terrorists who will one day attack American interests. We are calling on all Biafrans (Ijaw, Igbanke, Igala, Idoma/Igede, Annang, Efik, Ogoni, Igbo, Itsekiri, Urhobo, Isoko) all peace loving religious groups and associations from Southern Kaduna, across the Middle Belt down to the east and west living in America and other parts of the world to come out with their children and march for freedom for all because the pathway to our freedom is in our hands”.