Brown Chimezie The Nigerian Breweries Plc has stated that the decision  of Life, one of the lager beer brands in its stable, to embark on the multi-million Naira project of illuminating the Niger Bridge, in the South East, was borne out of the need to establish closer bond with its core consumers in that part of the country, and enhance its brand identifier, which the iconic bridge represents. The company’s Head, Media, Digital, Brand PR & Sponsorship, Mr. Wasiu Ola Abiola, in an interview with the media recently,  described the multi-million  Naira project as a result of the brand’s sentimental attachment to the South East. According to him, Life brand  started as a regional beer, when it was first brewed in Onitsha, Anambra State, in 1981, before growing to become a popular choice of Nigerians in every part of the part country. Describing the initiative as ‘a historic landmark’, Abiola stated that the lighting up of the bridge was not only significant for the company and the Life Lager Beer brand, but also the people of the south East, due to the long-standing relationship existing between the brand and the people of the South Eastern region. He added that the project represents the progressive spirit of  the Igbo people,  while at the same time, offering them  a ray of hope, especially  at these trying economic times. Abiola added that the Life lager brand had  established a long-standing heritage of progress,  which had, over the years,  seen it launch various initiatives that embody and inspire progress through its communication, in that part of the country. “On May 1, 2020,  Life Continental relaunched with an exciting new packaging design that reflects its progressive traits and prominently displays its long-standing iconic  brand identifier; the Niger Bridge, a bridge we term the ‘Bridge of Progress’ because it represents the progressive journey of optimism and assurance of hope for a better life,” he stated. He added that the project, which spanned  almost two years, was a way of enhancing the status of the iconic bridge, which had been displaying the Life brand’s messages since 2012. Expressing the company’s delight at the initiative,  Portfolio Manager, Mainstream Lager Brands, NB Plc, Omotunde Adenusi, stated that the significance of the initiative could be seen in the huge symbolism of the Niger Bridge to the people of the South East. “For many, the bridge symbolizes the start of something new, with the signs that  its long tradition of  progress will withstand the times.  So the project represents preservingthat historical monument that has created an easier way  for its citizens to move around. But more importantly for the Igbos, it is a symbol of trade and  access to greener pastures,” he added. Adenusi noted that with the feat, the brand had gone beyond elevating the brand’s key identifier to an iconic landmark, but had also breathed life to the new monument, that had served as a testament to the progressive spirit of the Igbo people. 