The Unilag Chapter of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has advised the Federal Government that only persons with interest in public education should be appointed Pro Chancellors. Dr Dele Ashiru, the Chairman of the chapter, gave the advice in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Lagos against the backdrop of resignation of Dr Wale Babalakin, the Pro Chancellor and Chairman of Governing Council of Unilag. NAN reports that the Federal Government, had on Aug. 21, directed both Babalakin and the Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, to recuse themselves from official duties in Unilag. The development was to allow for the outcome of a special visitation panel set up by President Muhammadu Buhari to look into the lingering crisis between the institution’s governing council and the Senate. Babalakin, however, tendered his resignation letter to the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, immediately after the visitation panel submitted its report on Sept. 17 Babalakin’s resignation letter cited disagreement with the Federal Government on the visitation panel sent to the university, among other claims. According to the Unilag ASUU boss, the departure of the former pro chancellor will pave way for academic stability in the university. He said that his constant interference in the daily affairs of the institution by the pro chancellor had constituted a set back to the peace and progress enjoyed by the university community. ‘I feel the sudden resignation of the former pro chancellor is a welcome development. ”We thank the Visitor to the university, President Muhammadu Buhari, through the honourable Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, for the timely intervention in ending dictatorship and high handedness in our dear university. ”My advice to the Federal Government is to be more circumspect in appointing pro chancellors in federal universities. ”It should ensure that only those with interest of public education at heart should be so appointed. ”Babalakin should understand that his resignation cannot atone for the many set backs his activities has caused the institution,” he said. The unionist said that with the voluntary resignation of Babalakin, the university would begin to regain its lost glory. ”We are convinced that with the support of all other stakeholders, the institution will bounce back to the path of peace, progress and academic excellence for which the university is renowned,” Ashiru said NAN reports that Mr John Momoh, Chief Executive Officer, Channels Television, has since been appointed as acting pro chancellor of the university pending the outcome of the report of the panel. (NAN) 