Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan The authorities of The Polytechnic Ibadan have terminated the appointment of a lecturer in the Department of Urban and Regional Planning of the institution, Mr Kelani Ajadi, over sexual scandal with a female student. The institution made this known in a letter dated September 15, 2020, entitled “The Polytechnic, Ibadan terminates the appointment of Chief Lecturer.” and signed by the Registrar and Secretary to the Governing Council of the institution, Mrs Modupe Fawale, which was made available to journalists in Ibadan on Saturday. The letter reads: ‘You will recall that you were engaged in inappropriate behaviour and a poorly managed relationship with your former student. These resulted in embarrassing and tarnishing the image of your employer, The Polytechnic, Ibadan. ‘You will also recall your responses and appearances before the investigation panel and senior staff disciplinary committee that looked into the above matters. ‘After careful consideration of the issues above, the Governing Council found you guilty as your actions and activities amount to misconduct. ‘The Governing Council, therefore, approves the immediate terminations of your appointment with effect from Friday, September 11. You are to hand over all properties of the institution in your possession to your Head of Department.’  The Public Relations Officer of the institution, Soladoye Adewole, said the Governing Council of the institution took the decision after a thorough investigation of the allegation and the management had no option to sack the lecturer, adding that the authorities have zero tolerance for corruption. ‘Our hallmark at the institution is diligence and due process in whatever we do because these students are going out to be leaders. We have to be fair to the students and even the community, therefore we have to be very careful in whatever we do. ‘We know the state has zero-tolerance for corruption ditto the institution. That is the reason the management studied the allegation diligently and passed the punishment on the culprit,’ he said. ‌ 