Rose Ejembi, Makurdi Benue Non Governmental Organization Network (BENGONET) has harped on the need to develop guidelines and recommendations for promoting integrity in running organizations through the instrumentality of the constitution in an increasingly globalized world. Chairman of BENGONET, Mrs. Rachel Ityonzughul stated this on the occasion of the 13th Annual General Meeting of BENGONET Rural Development Initiative (BENGONET) held recently in Makurdi, the Benue State capital. “With many research activities now taking on a global dimension, it is imperative to discuss positive approaches towards inculcating best practices, including examining the role of CSOs in setting the standards for integrity. Speaking on the theme of the AGM; ‘Civil Society Organizations: Development Imperatives,’ the Chairman
challenged all delegates, especially heads of member organizations, to think more about the challenges and responses confronting NGOs which may in turn inspire new and practicable standards in the field of development. Ityonzughul commended development Partners including UNICEF, UNHCR, Centre for Legal Reach (CLERD), OHCHR/NHRC, Action Aid, UN Women, Benue State Planning Commission, BERWASSA, the Benue State Government, the media and others for their continued support to BENGONET. Earlier in a remark, Chairman, Board of Trustees (BOT) of BENGONET, Pharm. Moses Ukeh thanked the state government for giving NGOs and CBOs the opportunity to work together in a conducive environment in the state. Ukeh who was represented by his Vice, Lady Gladys Shaahu noted that BENGONET which was established in 2002 has come a long way and is now of age. “BENGONET is only complementing governments efforts. They go where the government cannot reach. They have intervened in rural communities in collaboration with international partners,” Ukeh said. Highlights of the event was technical session followed by a dinner and award night where deserving individuals as well as development partners were honoured.  