Priscilla Ediare, Ado-Ekiti The Ekiti State Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, has paid tribute to the late theatre icon, Chief Jimoh Aliu. Egbeyemi eulogised the late artiste for using his talent in promoting arts and culture locally, nationally and internationally. The Deputy Governor, in a statement by his Special Assistant (Media), Odunayo Ogunmola, described the late Aliu as a worthy Ekiti ambassador who placed the name of the state on the global map of theatre, arts, culture and entertainment. Egbeyemi described the death of the former National President of the Association of Nigeria Theatre Arts Practitioners (ANTP) as a great and monumental loss not only to Ekiti, his state of origin but also to entire Nigeria. According to him, the late dramatist and producer exhibited the famed Ekiti virtues of honesty, integrity, hard work and good name which the youths of nowadays must emulate. Egbeyemi noted that the late Aliu mentored many young artistes and promoted local content in the nation’s entertainment industry. The Deputy Governor said the plays and films produced by the deceased taught moral lessons, bravery, valour, strong will, determination and self-belief in pursuit of dreams and vision. He said the late Aliu rose to stardom by dint of hard work and perseverance and never forgot his roots as he lived among his people throughout his lifetime. Egbeyemi regretted that the late Aliu died at a time his wise counsel was still needed noting that the deceased contributed his quota to the development of Ekiti State. The Deputy Governor, while commiserating with the family and associates of the deceased, urged them to be consoled by the good life he lived and the legacies he left behind. He said: ‘Surely, the vacuum left behind by this great legend of the stage and movies will be difficult to fill owing to his sterling contributions over the years. ‘This is a monumental loss not only to Ekiti but to our entire country. Our prayers and thoughts are with the family of the deceased. ‘As we pray God to grant them the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss, we urge them to be consoled by the good works of our departed hero, his ideals and worthy legacies he has left behind.’ 