Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The Chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Mahmood Yakubu, has read riot act to the Commission’s main and adhoc staff participating in Saturday’s Edo State governorship election, warning them not to compromise standard. In the message he sent to them ahead of the crucial poll, the INEC boss reminded them that the eyes of both Nigerians and the international community are on the Commission to conduct a free, fair and credible poll. He further challenged them to ensure that no party or candidate is accorded any undue advantage over the other, promising that the management will continue to improve their welfare and conditions of service within available resources. While charging them to be neutral and stick strictly to the Code of Conduct and Oath of Neutrality, he said: “As we begin the final countdown to the Edo governorship election, it is clear that all eyes are on INEC to deliver a free, fair and credible process. “I have no doubt that our staff members will rise to the occasion. We have done it several times before and we can do it again. The Commission deeply appreciates the never ending sacrifices made by our staff at all times, often beyond the call of duty, to ensure that we carry out our mandate. “The management will continue to improve the welfare and conditions of service of staff within the available resources. Let me appeal to all of you to remain steadfast and committed to the ideals of the Commission Nigerians and the international community expect so much from us. “They are watching. It is important that we all remain above board in the performance of our respective duties. We must ensure that no political party or candidate is accorded any advantage over the other. “We must be neutral at all times and stick strictly to our Code of Conduct and Oath of Neutrality to which we have all subscribed. “For, at the end of the day, we would have all contributed to the sustenance of democracy and a strong electoral process that all Nigerians can trust,” he charged them. 