Laide Raheem, Abeokuta Schools in Ogun State have been scheduled to reopen on Monday, September 21 for the first term of 2020/2021 session. SS3 students who are currently writing the West African School Certificate Examination had earlier resumed. In a press statement issued on Monday evening in Abeokuta by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Dapo Abiodun, Kunle Somorin, the second phase of the reopening of schools was extended to all classes in primary and secondary schools, technical and vocational colleges, and tertiary institutions. The statement added that as part of the efforts to meet the COVID-19 guidelines for school operations, the schools hours have been staggered for public schools. According to the government, Primary 1 to Primary 3​​​​ will resume by 8.00am and close by 11.00a.m, while Primary 4 to Primary 6​​​​ will resume by 12:00 pm and close by 3:00 pm. ‘JSS 1 to JSS3, ​​​​​8:00 am to 11:00 am, SS1 to SS3​​​​​, 12:00 pm to 3:00 pm, Technical and Vocational will operate their normal school hours of 8:00 am to 2:00 pm. ‘Early Child Care Development and Education classes, 3 to 5 years of age will not be resuming in public schools until the next phase of schools’ reopening. ‘Private schools are also expected to take necessary measures to meet the COVID-19 protocols for physical distancing, among other requirements. Tertiary institutions are allowed to commence reopening from 21st September, 2020 as may be determined by their respective management. ‘It should be noted that the government had earlier announced that all students had been given automatic promotion to the next class, including automatic placement for Primary 6 students in public primary schools into JSS1 of public secondary schools. However, primary 6 students desirous of placement into the State-owned Boarding Schools will sit for the Common Entrance Examination on Saturday, 12 September, 2020. ‘The hitherto JSS3 students who have now been promoted to SS1 will write their Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE) in October, 2020.’ The statement emphasised that the COVID-19 guidelines earlier issued for reopening of schools are still in effect. The guidelines, according to the statement, include “provision of sick bays/isolation rooms in schools, training and designation of some teachers as first line responders. ‘Other guidelines are provision of face masks, infrared thermometers adequate hand washing facilities and alcohol-based sanitisers for students and teachers in all schools, disinfection of the schools and suspension of general assembly. ‘Our approach to COVID-19 pandemic management has been deliberate, focused, inclusive and carefully balanced between life and livelihood and this has manifested in the steps we have adopted to the reopening of schools, ensuring safety of our children whilst minimising disruption in their education. The guidelines are applicable to all schools in the state whether private or public. I enjoin our students to take full benefits of the reopening of the schools for their education advancement and wish them a very fulfilling 2020/2021 academic year.’ 