 Edo Election: At Uruekpen materials arrived on time, voting commenced on time, security adequate By Daniel Kanu Today is the D-Day that Edo people will decide the next governor of the state.
All the drumbeat of war that has Disturbed the stste will fade today.
In all parts of the state activities are on.
At Iruekpen (Edo central) there is adequate security as Army mounted check-points.
At Ogbomoide Primary school which is under Ward 6, with 3 Units (6,7,8) materials have arrived when Daily Sun visited at 8.03 am except Unit 6 which arrived late due to bus problem according to Richard Ihionkhan, PDP agent.
Sanitizer s were made available for voters. Infra red thermometer was provided. Social distancing observed as well as wearing of face mask which is compulsory.
At Central primary school Iruekpen (Ward 6) there were also 3 Units there. They are Units 3,4,5. All election materials came on time. Social distancing observed and wearing of face mask compulsory before voting.
House of Representatives member for the constituency Hon. Joe Edionwele is expected to vote there.
Presiding officer Oyesomi Ezekiel Adedapo said “all is well so far”.
At Ward 5 at Umudum primary school there is 2 polling units.
Aderonti Tolulope ( a Youth Corper) who is the presiding officer said “everything is in place”.
There is enough security presence. Voting commenced at 8.30am. The weather is Clement while voters are in high spirit.  Voters  checking their names on the displayed list A van conveying election materials into Emokpae Model Primary School, Benin City, where Governor Godwin Obaseki is expected to vote, mk A brawl ensued at Emokpae Model Primary School polling unit over the appointment of rival party executive as INEC ad-hoc official.  Officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) just arriving Iguododo community in the Orhionwon Local Government Area of Edo State. The INEC officials were brought to polling unit 26, Ward 5  at around 8:02 in a white bus. Many  journalists were on ground,  waiting for the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, but voters are yet to arrive.   