Rita Okoye, Lagos Arise a charity organization has been in the forefront of bringing primary health care to the most needy and has always complimented governments efforts in healthcare delivery. In line with this vision ARISE has donated medical supplies to Lagos State coronavirus (COVID-19) Response Team as part of efforts to support the on-going battle by the state government to contain the fast spreading pandemic. The relief materials, which include 4,000 sanitizers; 20,000 hand gloves and 4,000 facemasks, would equip the medical team with necessary protective gears needed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. ARISE, a humanitarian and charitable organisation, has been in the forefront of bringing health care delivery to the most vulnerable in the society through their mobile clinics – Arise hospitals- as well as donation of boreholes and medical reliefs. For over 11years, ARISE has continued to reach out to many without bias, staring with its pioneer charity work labelled: “Faith and Works” that is over 20 years old. This initiative has brought about activities including hospital visits, provision of essential materials for patients and hospitals, donations of incubators, oxygen gauge and high blood pressure monitors to Lagos Island Maternity and Dialysis Machine to Gbagada General Hospital to mention a few.  With the donations on Monday, April 6, ARISE has joined other well-meaning Nigerians and organizations at this crucial time in the fight against COVID-19, particularly the sacrifices that all medical personnel are making at this time as they occupy the frontline in the battle. Speaking while donating the medical supplies at Yaba Medical centre, Lagos State, Dr. Siju Iluyomade, Founder/Convener, ARISE, said: “ARISE takes health very seriously because you need to be in sound health to do anything tangible. Apart from the donation of personal protective materials, ARISE has free medicals outreach at the Healing Stripes Hospital for Women every second and last Wednesday of every month. “Also, under our adopt-a-village Scheme, we have adopted many villages In Abuja. We built a full-fledged functional borehole in three of the villages for the schools and separate ones for the communities and their leaders, we built full resource & literacy centers, complete renovations of schools, supplies of stationaries, books and brand-new classroom furniture.” Dr Siju Iluyomade further said: “What keeps me going is the reality that we are able to bring smiles, relief and hope to the lives of the people and the communities we come in contact with. “When you see that overwhelming look on the faces of the women, children and men at times, you even think you have to do more and you see them so elated and thanking God for ARISE. We cannot help but keep going, knowing we are touching and affecting lives positively and giving hope to those that are almost giving up. “ARISE is all about educating and empowering the Women knowing fully well that if you educate, impart knowledge in the woman and empower her, she in turn will do the same for her children who are the leaders of tomorrow. She will lift up her family, support her spouse and the list is unending, thereby bringing a better future and hope to her loved ones, community and ultimately, her nation. “Remember that women are incubators and bring to birth and to life all they come in contact with. We are created that way,” she stated. Dr Siju later prayed for those in the frontline doctors, nurses, technicians, pharmacists, cleaners and the unseen warriors, God bless you all has you forget self and confront this enemy COVID-19.