Judex Okoro, Calabar The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) ward executive committee members in Cross River State have been inaugurated in 196 wards of the state. The ward executive committee members, who were sworn-in by a Notary Public, Okimasi Ojong, principal partner of Barr Okimasi Ojong and Co, in accordance with the provisions of Section 65 of the PDP Constitution as amended in 2017, would be in office for a tenure of four years. The committee was inaugurated following a directive by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party in a letter dated April 26, 2020, and signed by the National Organising Secretary, Col Austin Akobundu. The national leadership of the party had released the approved authentic list for ward and local government executives for all the 196 wards and 18 local government councils. The statement further directed the state party chairman, Ntufam Edim Inok Edim, to inaugurate the new executive officers in accordance with the provisions of Section 65 of the party constitution as amended in 2017. A letter dated April 30, 2020, and addressed to the party through the State Legal Adviser, Okimasi. stated: “Kindly be informed that upon submission of the duly completed oath of office and oath of allegiance form today Thursday 30th April 2020 by 7:30 am and in line with the provisions of Section 65 of the People’s Democratic Party, the newly elected ward executive officers of your party whose names were verified and contained in a letter with reference N0. PDP/DOM/GF.V/VOL.2/20-387B are admitted to an oath and therefore sworn in already to function in their various offices.” The notary public noted that in view of the ravaging pandemic, COVID-19, the Concerned Ward Executives are to print and fill the Oath of Office and Oath allegiance as it appeared in your Party Constitution. Congratulating the newly sworn-in ward executive members, the Cross River State PDP Patriots (CRSPP) said the national leadership of the party had institutionalised internal democracy in electing party officers In a statement made available to journalists in Calabar on Thursday and signed by Austine Edibe, the state PDP Auditor, Tony Edako, an aspirant to the position of the State and six others, the group said: “The national chairman of our great party, Prince Uche Secondus, in his inauguration speech, promised to liberalise internal democratic processes and introduce transparency in all affairs. The swearing-in of the ward officers has confirmed the veracity of that promise. “We can, therefore, say that the people have grown in confidence regarding the democratic processes and are elated knowing that their voices truly counts. We call on the victors to show magnanimity in victory.” Checks by Daily Sun revealed that the newly sworn-in ward executive committee members are mostly loyalists of the National Assembly members and some pioneer PDP members who have been at loggerhead with Governor Ben Ayade over the control of the party structure. 