Priscilla Ediare, Ado-Ekiti A new radio station in Ikere Ekiti, Ekiti State, New Cruse 92.7 FM, on Tuessday commenced full transmission of programmes to listeners within and outside the state. The station was established by an illustrious son of Ikere and former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN). New Cruse 92.7 FM, which commenced test transmission about three weeks ago, is located in Kajola area of Ikere-Ekiti with listeners calling in to attest to the quality of signals. The Catholic Bishop of Ekiti Diocese, the Most Rev. Felix Ajakaye, was on hand to dedicate the station to God in prayers to formally commence full transmission of programmes. Speaking while being interviewed by the station’s General Manager, Mr Jide Ogunluyi, the bishop described the establishment of the new station as a positive development. Ajakaye urged the station to uphold the ethics of the media profession and be fair in its reportage of activities. Speaking in a recorded audio message, Olanipekun, who described himself as “one of the promoters of the station,” said New Cruse 92.7 FM was established to break new grounds in broadcasting and journalism. Olanipekun disclosed that the signals of the radio station are being received in states like Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Kwara, Ondo, Kogi, Edo and Delta. The legal icon said the station was not established to project the ideology of any political party but to inform, entertain and educate its listeners. Olanipekun added that the station boasts of modern digital equipment in line with the broadcasting trends of the 21st century. Commissioner for Health and Human Services, Dr Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, justified the extension of the lockdown in the state by Governor Kayode Fayemi. Mrs Yaya-Kolade, who appeared on a current affairs programme on the station, BOTTOM LINE, said the two weeks extension was in the overall interest of Ekiti people. The Commissioner, who assured that the Fayemi administration was doing everything possible to defeat COVID-19, urged the people of the state to abide by the guidelines to achieve the task.