The Kwara Commissioner for Health, Dr Raji Rasak, has disclosed that the two patients of Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state are doing well and in good spirit. Razak made this known at a stakeholders meeting on COVID-19 on Friday in Ilorin. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the meeting was attended by officials from the state Ministry of Health, Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the state Technical Committee on COVID-19. He explained that a three-man team consisting of himself; Prof. Wale Suleiman, the Special Adviser on Health to the Governor; and Dr Femi Oladiji, a medical expert, had visited the patients in the isolation centre at Sobi Specialist Hospital, Ilorin. He said that the patients initially expressed displeasure, but later showed happiness over the visit. Razak also disclosed that the patients are going through psychotherapy, while the medication of a patient with underlining condition was changed accordingly. He also said that all their necessary needs are being met by the state government, adding that as at the time of the visit DSTV satellite cable are being installed for the patients. The commissioner commended Gov. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq for all his efforts at containing the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. Also Speaking at the meeting, Mr Kayode Alabi, the state Deputy Governor, commended the stakeholders for their efforts at eradicating the virus in the state. He warned that the danger of the diseases cannot be over emphasised, hence why the state government directed a total shutdown for effective contact tracing. Speaking earlier, Dr Shuaib Belgore, the NCDC team leader from Abuja, advised that the committee on COVID-19 eradication should meet at least twice daily for strategic planning and evaluation as well as implementation strategy on disease surveillance, contact tracing, and data management, among others. He warned the committee that sometimes suspected cases situation has to be taken by force, adding that Kwara state has international border with other country and an international airport. Belgore observed that security operatives in the state as well as across the country must factor everybody at the entry and exit points in order to prevent further spread of the disease. (NAN)