Joseph Inokotong, Abuja The Nigeria Correctional Service (NCoS) has denied a report that Maryam Sanda, a woman convicted for killing her husband, has been granted a presidential pardon. This was disclosed by the Service Public Relations Officer (SPEO), Mr Chuks Njoku, in a statement Thursday in Abuja. Describing the report as fake news, Mr Njoku said: “The attention of NCoS has been drawn to the news making the rounds that Maryam Sanda was granted presidential pardon on Thursday, April 9, alongside some 70 other inmates at the Medium Security Custodial Centre, Kuje. “The Service wants to categorically state that the news is fake and very unrealistic and an attempt to rubbish the good intention of the President towards decongesting the custodial centres. “The Minister of Interior, Mr Rauf Aregbesola clearly stated the categories of inmates qualified for the amnesty while addressing a news conference on April 9. “According to Aregbeshola, inmates sentenced for violent extreme offences such as terrorism, kidnapping, armed banditry, rape, human trafficking, culpable homicide and the like are not qualified for the presidential pardon. “However, convicts who are 60 years and above, convicts serving three years and above with less than six months to serve, inmates with ill-health likely to terminate in death are qualified. “Also inmates with mental ill-health, inmates with option of fine not exceeding N50,000 with no pending case, convicted pregnant women, convicted women with child, convicted inmates with minor offences, convicted inmates who spent 75 per cent of their sentence after remission.” The NCoS spokesman pointed out that Sanda did not meet any of the mentioned requirements and therefore did not benefit from the presidential pardon and clemency. Continuing, he added “we further want to assure the public that Sanda is in our custody and will remain as such. “The Controller-General of NCoS, Mr Ja’afaru Ahmed, assures the public that the service will ensure the safety and humane containment of inmates in our custody.” An FCT High Court on January 27, sentenced Sanda to death by hanging for stabbing her husband to death, Bilyaminu, son of a former national chairman of the People’s Democratic Party, Haliru Bello.