Joe Effiong, Uyo One more death has been recorded in Akwa Ibom State while three new COVID-19 positive cases have been recorded within the last couple of days in the state. Governor Udom Emmanuel who made the disclosure on Thursday while giving an update on COVID-19 in the state at the Government House, Uyo, explained that the new death brings to two, the total number of Akwa Ibom people who have lost their lives to the virus. Emmanuel who said that the state now has six active cases explained that the three new cases recorded were as a result of the ongoing contact tracing exercise in the state. “On the last laboratory test we conducted on 44 suspected cases, three persons were confirmed positive, while we lost one. “The patient we lost was a 68-year-old woman who was transferred to the centre, totally unconscious with multiple serious long-outstanding comorbidity. “And I want to use this opportunity to appeal to doctors, please, whether it is Covid-19 or not, once the illness is beyond what your experience and facility can carry, seek the help of your colleagues. “We would not accept cases of dumping any longer. A situation where you bring a patient with total unconsciousness, and a few hours later, the person would just give up the ghost, we won’t accept that any longer!” Governor Emmanuel, however, reported that the state had recorded remarkable successes in terms of treatment of minor symptoms. “Our recovery rate is remarkable. Only God can help the entire world,” he added He stressed the determination of the state government to continue to provide the state with excellent medical care, while also encouraging Akwa Ibom people to continue to follow all necessary preventative measures. The governor used the occasion to reiterate that passenger’s traffic remains embargoed, as a ban on interstate transport services has not been lifted, warning that anyone caught, would be detained for 14 days. “No passenger movement. No motor park should load or offload, else we would keep you for 14 days. Except those on essential services such as medicals, foodstuffs and media,” he said. 