The Enugu State Government has directed all tricycle operators in the state, popularly known as “Keke Riders”, to limit their operating time between 6 am and 7 pm daily, with effect from Monday, April 13, 2020. A statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Simon Uchenna Ortuanya, stated that the decision was in furtherance of the state government’s efforts to sustain its robust response to contain the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state, as well as provide maximum security for residents. The state government added that “the earlier Executive Order issued by His Excellency, the Governor, that every ‘Keke’ should carry a maximum of two passengers at a time remains in force”. The statement maintained that “any keke operator found in contravention of the above directive shall be apprehended by the security agencies and dealt with according to the law”. It would be recalled that the Association of Tricycle Riders Transport Union (ATRTU), Enugu State, had reminded its members that the directives by the Enugu State government that all tricycle operators in the state should be carrying two passengers only and should not operate beyond the state’s land boundaries, to contain the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19), are still in force. In a statement by the chairman and secretary of the association, Comrade Benjamin Ejiofor Ikah and Comrade Pius N. Ezugwu, respectively, the reminder was “sequel to security reports that some tricycle operators have started carrying more than two passengers and are also operating beyond the state’s land boundaries in total defiance of the state government’s orders”. According to the statement, “these ugly acts are capable of sabotaging the cherished and tireless efforts of our dear governor, His Excellency, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, in containing the spread of this deadly virus.” The Union, therefore, warned “those involved in these acts to immediately desist from them by carrying only two passengers and stop operating close to or beyond the boundaries.” It disclosed that “furthermore, our task force has been directed to apprehend and hand over to the police any tricycle operator caught violating the government’s directives in this regard.”