Sola Ojo, Kaduna and Agaju Madugba, Katsina Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai, yesterday announced that he had tested negative for the pandemic COVID-19 This came 25 days after he tested positive to the ravaging disease. In a statement he personally signed, the governor said:  “In the evening of Saturday, 28 March 2020, I was notified that I had tested positive for Covid-19. I immediately made a public disclosure of this sad news and proceeded into isolation under the strict supervision of our healthcare professionals. “I am delighted to report today, that after nearly four weeks of observing a strict medical regime, I have now received the all-clear after two  consecutive negative test results. “I thank Almighty Allah for His grace and mercy. I also acknowledge with gratitude the massive outpouring of sympathy, prayers and public support that followed the disclosure of the infection. ‘‘My family not only went through the trauma of potentially losing a member, but also the risk of being infected as well. The entire family has been supportive as usual, while my many friends and colleagues from all over the world have sent their prayers and best wishes. “I wish to thank the diligent  medical personnel of our ministry of health and the Barau Dikko Teaching Hospital who managed my case for their dedicated and professional care. “It was cheering to see the determined efforts of our COVID-19 Task Force chaired by the deputy governor, the officials of our ministry of health ably led by the commissioner and our security/enforcement agencies, to manage and contain the spread of COVID-19 in the state. “I wish to acknowledge our deputy governor, Dr. Hadiza Balarabe, for her reassuring leadership of our team in my absence. In this trying period, our senior officials have demonstrated admirable commitment and the flexibility to provide governance in circumstances that are so different from the old normal. The commitment, competence and capabilities displayed by the Kaduna State Government  in my four-week absence is clear evidence that we have a public service we can all be proud of. “I am relieved by my recovery. With the privilege of life, sound health, and the support and prayers of our citizens’’ he said.