Ayo Alonge, Lagos In what can be described as an unrelenting effort towards assisting government at all levels in curtailing the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on Nigerians, the Deeper Christian Life Ministry has donated more food items in palliatives to the Lagos State Government. Making the donation which came in hundreds of bags of rice recently, the church posited that the gesture is a pointer to its renewed efforts in supporting the Lagos State Government, which is the most affected state by the pandemic. According to the church, the gesture is targeted at ameliorating the spate of hunger and hopelessness that has greeted the scourge. The donation, which was made in consonance with the Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19 (CA COVID-19), was specially targeted at feeding as many residents in the state, while the lockdown lasts. The General Superintendent of the church, Pastor William F Kumuyi, in a statement, harped on the need to make life better for Lagosians through the donation. “It behoves the Deeper Christian Life Bible Church to donate additional relief materials to the Lagos State Government. This is a government that has been largely seen working assiduously to curtail the spread and menace of the pandemic and we are particularly happy with the giant strides, so far. “The teeming population of Lagos can be hardly catered for all by government alone, while the lockdown lasts with an additional two weeks, and that is why, as a church, we have deemed it necessary by the grace of God to make an additional donation in relief materials to the state government,” he said. Receiving the donation on behalf of the state, Programme Manager/CEO of the Lagos State Agricultural Development Authority, Dr Pereira Sheteolu, while thanking the church, expressed that the Lagos State government is delighted and grateful for the gesture. Recall that, a fortnight ago, the church, out of its magnanimity, made a cash donation to the Federal Government of Nigeria. It also donated relief materials in food items worth several millions of naira to the governments of Lagos and Ogun states. In the light of the donations, Kumuyi was quoted to have said that, “we have a firm belief in God that He will answer our prayers and bring an end to the pandemic, sooner than expected.”