Gilbert Ekezie Chief Executive Officer of HITWAVES Global Limited, Pastor Emma Chukwunonso has said that Plakman, a product of the organization which his firm represents in Nigeria, is a veritable solution for all kinds of health challenges that are killing people on daily basis all over the world. Plakman is a supplement produced by BVISION INC, USA, which has been scientifically proven to set one free from all kinds of diseases. He said Plakman is the ultimate cure for troublesome sicknesses and keeps the victims healthy to go about their normal businesses as long as it is taken as recommended. Chukwunonso whose company is the sole marketers of Plakman in Africa and representative of BVISION INC in Nigeria, explained that with the increasing rates of heart disease, kidney problems, diabetes, high blood pressure, pneumonia, sleeping difficulty, stoolling, etc, world renowned scientists conducted research and came up with Plakman, a supplement which can protect, cure and keep the people healthy at all times. Chukwunonso assured that Plakman supplements have been proven to helpful in improving heart health, especially when taken properly. “Plakman is a good option for people who are already battling with high cholesterol and blood circulation issues. It is a daily supplement, which could also be beneficial for people who have a family history of heart-related problems.” He disagreed with the notion that older people are more prone to heart diseases, saying that many younger victims of both genders are diagnosed with heart disease, noting that experts said heart disease can be caused by a wide variety of factors such as genetics, age, ethnicity, weight, cholesterol, blood pressure levels, smoking, depression, and living a sedentary lifestyle. “Unfortunately, diabetes patients also face a higher risk of developing the deadly disease. As I often say, it is good to tackle the challenge with at least Plakman Supplement, as it could have a dramatic impact on the overall health of one’s heart.” According to him, the best way to reduce the risk of dying from heart-related complications is to avoid behavioural risk factors like smoking and other sedentary lifestyles. “Immediate steps one can take to help the heart are staying active, stop smoking, cutting down on salt consumption, watching ones diet and cutting out unhealthy junk foods. Also, in order to help the heart, people should ease up on alcohol, check their family history, learn to manage their stress levels, check their blood pressure and cholesterol levels, manage their weight and drink more water.”