John Adams, Minna, Layi Olanrewaju, Ilorin, Tunde Omolehin, Sokoto There is uneasy calm in Niger State as residents, private schools and other public institutions have been asked to pay for the fumigation of their property This is  contrary to what obtains elsewhere across the country since the pandemic disease broke out in the country. The  development has raised  serious concerns and worries among residents, particularly owners of public buildings who have raised serious opposition to the  policy and have vowed to resist it. Due to the out break of the Coronavirus and the need to contain its spread , the state government said  it had concluded plans to fumigate all public institutions including schools, markets and residential buildings but at the expenses of the people. Although the state has not  recorded any case of the COVID-19, the government said the fumigation of the places was part of the proactive measures to contain the spread of the pandemic. The exercise, it was gathered had already been contracted to a consulting firm,  said to be  owned by a close relation of a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) led-administration  in the state. The Nigeria State Environmental Protection Agency (NSEPA) as an agency of government  was being used to coordinate the  fumigating exercise and collect the levis for the consulting firm. A circular to this effect sent to some organisations in the state requests  proprietors of the over 400 private schools to pay between N10,000 and N15,000 for the fumigation of their schools. Kaduna records new case The Kaduna State Ministry of Health has reported another  new case of COVID 19, bringing the  number of those who tested positive to the pandemic to five in the state. Commissioner for Health, Dr Amina Baloni, who disclosed this in a statement in Kaduna State yesterday said the state government had been taking vigorous actions to contain the spread of the deadly disease. ‘’So far, the state has sent 89 samples to Abuja for testing, among which five samples were positive, 77 samples were negative, and eight  samples are pending. 119 contacts have been listed and further contact tracing is ongoing.’’ According to her, the state  government had been taking vigorous actions to contain the spread of COVID-19 since February, by reaching out  to  chief medical directors of all hospitals in the state, with daily evaluation of the pandemic and devising new ways to check the spread.’’ The commissioner said that the ministry had set up an emergency operation centre,  chaired by the commissioner of health and meets everyday to take proactive measures. Baloni,  said that the ministry had reactivated and strengthened the Infectious Disease Control Centre (IDCC), by deploying  trained health workers to the facility, who are currently caring for our patients. ‘’In addition, the ministry has  also concluded arrangements for the take-off of an alternative isolation centre which has 69 rooms, where mild to moderate cases will be managed,’’ she added. “According to the Deputy Governor, Hadiza Balarabe, the facility is expected to be ready to receive patients this week. Kwara Gov launches cash transfer to poor households Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has  launched the Federal Government’s conditional cash transfer to 25000 households in the state  with beneficiaries  getting at least 20,000 each. “This is to assist the poor in this time of global pandemic when our people are asked t o stay at home to halt the spread of the virus. The governor commended  the Federal Govrnment for increasing the number of beneficiaries in the state from 10,000 to 25,000. He said the gesture will  complement the measures taken by his  administration in order to alleviate the consequences caused by the pandemic and the restriction of movement resulting from it. ‘’I especially thank Mr. President for this gesture as well as the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 and the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development for their efforts in coordinating theses actions at this crucial time. Bauchi tracing 305 contacts of index case, others Bauchi State Deputy  Governor, Baba Tela , has said the state government had started  serious manhunt for 305 contacts of the index case of Coronavirus and others reported by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in the state. Tela, who is also the Chairman of the State Task Force Committee on COVID-19, made this known in Bauchi yesterday. The governor  said all the 305 contacts had been located and their samples had  been taken to Abuja for evaluation. “We  have been tracing all the contacts from the first index person to the last one reported by the NCDC; we have been tracing 305 contacts. “We have listed all these contacts and they have all been contacted and we have taken all their samples,” the deputy governor said. Tela, however, said the state government was not satisfied with the length of time it took to get a test done, adding that a sample would have to be taken down to Abuja  where people from other states were already on the queue for results of their tests. He added that the state government was working towards having a testing centre in Bauchi State. Responding to reports published by some online media about the state governor, Bala  Mohammad testing  negative to the Coronavirus, he said, “We don’t rely on what we hear or what we see on social media.