The Spanish Football Association (RFEF) has taken a decision on what to do if the La Liga season is cut short or abandoned due to the coronavirus pandemic, an official says. RFEF general secretary Andreu Camps disclosed this in a statement on Thursday. He said the four clubs on top of the most recent completed round of the La Liga season standings would qualify for next season’s UEFA Champions League. All the clubs have played 27 matches before the RFEF suspended play on March 12 due to the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. Therefore, FC Barcelona, Real Madrid, Sevilla and Real Sociedad are the four teams that will go through to Europe’s premier club competition if no more action is possible this season. “The RFEF wants to have done its homework in case, in the event of a suspension of competitions, it receives the request from UEFA regarding the Spanish clubs that would have access to European competitions next season,” Camps said. “Thus… it has been agreed in the RFEF Delegate Commission to make a plan in order to give certainty in an extreme scenario, such as not being able to finish the competitions, so that all the clubs know the new scenario they are facing.” After the last round of games were completed on March 10, FC Barcelona topped La Liga with 58 points, two ahead of Real Madrid. Sevilla are third on 47, with Real Sociedad a point further back in fourth. The teams in fifth and sixth place —– which are currently Getafe and Atletico Madrid —— will also qualify for the Europa League. The result of the Copa Del Rey final, if that is contested, could impact which team grabs the final Europa League spot. With Copa Del Rey finalists Real Sociedad already in the top four, their opponents Athletic Bilbao (10th in the league) are in pole position for the third Europa League spot. But that will be if they have not climbed into the top six by the time the final league standings are decided. Should that occur, the final Europa League spot will go to the seventh-placed team in La Liga.(Reuters/NAN)