Magnus Eze, Enugu Charismatic Catholic priest and Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Nigeria (AMEN), Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka has opened up on his prophecy regarding the Imo governorship which was affirmed by the Supreme Court, on Tuesday. The fiery priest who had received knocks for prophesying that Chief Emeka Ihedioha would be booted out of Imo Government House and replaced by Senator Hope Uzodinma, on Wednesday, said the apex court’s judgement had for umpteenth times vindicated him as a true prophet of God. The priest who had in 2015 rightly prophesied the defeat of then president, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan by Muhammadu Buhari had boasted that, “no prophecy has ever been declared on this prayer ground without coming to pass”. A statement by his spokesman, Maximus Ugwuoke, in Enugu said people should learn to fear God and respect His anointed whenever he says: “Thus says the Lord”. According to him, “we are not all gifted alike; Fr Mbaka’s prophetic gift should be a source of pride for the Catholic Church and indeed all true Christians as a living evidence of divine presence within the church.
“As a lawyer, I tell you that there are double fold angles to this miracle. One is the miraculous resuscitation of Hope Uzodimma from the far away position he was placed in the election result announced by INEC in Imo State. The second is the unanimous confirmation of the seven justices of the Supreme Court (without a dissent view) that Uzodimma was the rightful winner of the election. “Fr Mbaka had at all times been consistent in his insistence of God’s revelation to him of Hope Uzodimma as Imo governor even before his 31st December night message and before Uzodimma’s appeal to the Supreme Court. Uzodimma; becoming the governor of Imo was just a part of the about 40 prophetic prayers Fr Mbaka made on the 31st December night. But that became the only issue people satanically picked against him.
“Today, again God has vindicated Fr. Mbaka as He has always done for Fr Mbaka and adoration ministry in all the battles, vituperations and attacks the ministry had faced in the past. To God be the glory.”