Obinna Odogwu, Awka Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, has called on leaders of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) to collapse their party into the All Progressives Congress (APC) if they are serious about protecting Igbo interest. According to Ngige, rather than deceiving the people with the propaganda that they stood for Igbo interest, APGA should be collapsed into the APC which, at present, is leading the mainstream politics of the country. Ngige, in an interview with Daily Sun, said Nigerian president of Igbo extraction was one of the most important projects pursued by Ndigbo, but noted that the aspiration could only be achieved if Igbo leaders  build political bridges across the country. Ngige, a former senator who represented Anambra Central Senatorial zone in the National Assembly, advised Ndigbo to identify with the APC and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and be properly integrated into the mainstream politics of the country, if they seek to realise the ambition of producing a president in 2023. “Those who say they are in APGA should collapse and come into the mainstream politics of Nigeria. If APGA wants to help Ndigbo as they pretend or as they mouth or tout, they have to realign and come into the mainstream Nigerian politics. We have to go and reinforce in the two political parties. There is still time for the Igbo to re-strategise, and we have to start now. That is what I am saying. “Ndigbo will need to go and resuscitate their firepower; shop for a credible candidate, prepare him the way Zik (Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe) was prepared and blessed when he came back from abroad. Baptise the candidate very well, and then present him before other Nigerians. It’s a game of numbers. “We have to court other Nigerians to give us support. You must court them. That is the game. You must lobby. You must do some political reengineering. For today, we are not getting it right as Ndigbo. If we start today to get it right, it is still on time. Igbo have to identify with the two main political parties. They must identify with both. But for now, the party with firepower to win presidency at any given time because of its areas of support in Nigeria federation is the APC. So, Ndigbo should join the APC. Some of us are there. We are not stupid to be there. We know what we are doing,” said Ngige.