This estate is situated at Arepo, also available at (Magodo G.R.A and Abuja) serene and organised environment at the boundary of Lagos and Ogun states, hosting presently journalists estate 1 and 2. The estate is covered by Global Certificate of Occupancy. Specifically, The Grenadines Homes is a five-minute drive from Magodo/Alausa Secretariat, Lagos state seat of power, a fifteen-minute drive to Murtala Muhammed airport all within mainland Lagos, while it is a twenty-five-minute drive from the business community of Victoria Island and Ikoyi in downtown Lagos. The Estate is developed along a zonal parameter commercial zone, residential zone, infrastructures, recreational gardens/park, administrative/service delivery, and security. The Grenadines Homes, Citiview Estate is a private estate. The estate sets a  high-level benchmark in service delivery, infrastructures, environment,  functional and lofty style. The fact that everyone is drifting to the Island does not mean that there are no good apartments for men and women of high calibers on the Lagos mainland. Living in residential estateas opposed to living elsewhere seems like the ideal way to live.   As you may already know, residential estates cater for security, light and other vitals which can’t be enjoyed in other residential areas. More so, it has a form of serenity as against the noises of the hustle and bustle of the rest of the city. However, living in an estate requires much more cost than living elsewhere. No wonder the upper-class Nigerians prefer to stay on the Island because it has a good number of residential estates. A residential estate is a group of homes and other buildings built together as a single development. It is usually built by a single contractor, with only a few styles of house or building design, so they tend to be uniform in appearance. Most people already assume that residential estates are very expensive because of the services that come with them. The good news is, residential estates on the Lagos mainland   are not as expensive as those on the Island, yet residents still tend to enjoy the same benefits.