Gyang Bere, Jos No fewer than 13 persons were reportedly killed on Wednesday night by gunmen suspected to Fulani herdsmen at Kulben village in Kombun district of Mangu Local Government Area of the State. Our correspondent gathered that the incident which occurred at midnight consumed children, women and the aged in their peaceful sleep. Plateau State Police Public Relations Officer, (PPRO) Tyopev Matthias confirmed the incident and said 12 persons were killed. He said the command has taken necessary action to curtail further occurrence. Meanwhile, Plateau State governor, Rt. Hon. Simon Bako Lalong condemned in strong terms the killing of innocent persons following an attack by gunmen at Kulben village in Kombun district of Mangu Local Government Area of the State. Lalong in a statement signed by his Director of Press and Public Affairs Dr. Makut Simon Macham, described the attack as another attempt to puncture the peace that had gradually returned to the state. Lalong commiserated with victims and families of those killed, and warned that his administration will not sit down and watch any group or individuals cause chaos in the State and return it to the dark days of insecurity. “We have toiled to ensure that peace returns to Plateau State and we will not allow anyone to make nonsense of our efforts. We are determined to deal decisively and firmly with anybody found culpable in attacking or inciting people to carry out attacks against one another.” He commended security agencies for arresting seven suspects connected to the killings and restoring normalcy to the area. Lalong assured that thorough investigations will be carried out to get to the bottom of the matter as anyone found wanting will face the full wrath of the law. The governor called for calm and advised against reprisals as government is dealing with the situation. He said those injured had been taken to General Hospital Mangu and are responding to treatment Member representing Mangu South constituency in the Plateau State House of Assembly, Bala Fwangje, has described as barbaric and unacceptable act the killings of 13 members of his constituency in Kulben community of Kombun district. He noted that the people of Kulben community are peaceful and accommodating and wondered why some heaters of peace and enemies of the state will lay siege to innocent and harmless people of the area. The House member called for calm amongst his people as security agencies and stakeholders are putting heads together to fish out those behind the act. Most of the victims that lost their lives were youths, while four others were receiving treatment in hospital.