Timothy Olanrewaju, Maiduguri and Gyang Bere, Jos The United Nations said it was ‘deeply relieved’ over the release of three aid workers and two other civilians abducted by Boko Haram late December on a Borno highway. The United Nations, Humanitarian Coordinator in Nigeria, Edward Kallon in a statement, yesterday, said the release of the aid workers brought joy to the humanitarian community  families and relations of the abductees. They were abducted by Boko Haram along Maiduguri-Monguno road on December 22, 2019 during an attack and released to the security on Wednesday afternoon. “I am deeply relieved that some civilians, including three aid workers, who were abducted  by non-state armed groups along the Monguno – Maiduguri road on 22 December 2019 have been released yesterday and are now safe. The whole humanitarian community in Nigeria shares the joy of the families, friends and colleagues of these aid workers, who can now put to rest the unimaginable anxiety of missing their loved ones,” Kallon said. The humanitarian coordinator described the aid workers as dedicated humanitarians who were working to provide life-saving support to many people displaced by over a decade of insurgency and other vulnerable persons in the violence in northeast Borno State. “They should never have been a target or have to endure the trauma of being held captive,” Kallon declared. He however said the international community was still concern about the fate of many other civilians abducted at different times by the insurgents in the volatile northeast states despite the ‘encouraging news’ of the Wednesday freedom for the five abductees. “I  also remain gravely concerned for the lives of our ACF colleague Grace Taku, abducted near Damasak in July 2019, and Alice Loksha, a nurse and a mother, abducted during an attack in Rann in March 2018. Both are still held captive by non-state armed groups. The United Nations and its humanitarian partners call for their immediate and safe release,” he said. He said  he was “extremely worried” by the increasingly insecure environment that aid workers are working to provide urgent and vital assistance to civilians affected by insurgency. A total of twelve aid workers have lost their lives in 2019, according to the humanitarian coordinator, a figure he said was twice more than that of 2018. He described the year as the worst among most dangerous years for humanitarian actors in Nigeria. The three aid workers and two civilians were released on Wednesday afternoon following “intense negation” with Boko Haram, multiple security sources said. Meanwhile, Plateau Governor, Simon Lalong and member representing Mangu-Bokkos Federal Constituency, Solomon Mare, have applauded  the security agencies for working tirelessly for the released of aid workers. Lalong in a statement by his  Director of Press and Public Affairs Dr. Makut Simon Macham, thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for his support in ensuring their freedom and charged him to ensure the terror group and other criminals are fished out and dealt with. Lalong had given assurances that the  government would work with all necessary agencies to secure her release when he sent a delegation   by commissioner of Budget and Planning, Mr. Sylvester Wallangko to the family of Jennifer. He said efforts to rescue other citizens of Plateau still under Boko Haram captivity were ongoing and asked the family and people of the state to continue to pray and support government and security agencies with useful information that will assist in their quick release. Lalong said more security measures are being taken  to tackle incidences of criminality and forestall attacks on innocent citizens. Maren in a separate statement also saluted the courage  of security agencies who have made sacrifice in the protection of the nation from evil men. He said his joy and that of Jennifer’s family’s knew no bounds and hailed the rare courage and bravery of men in uniform for the sacrifice to protect Nigeria from the hands of evil men, particularly the Armed Forces and the Department of State Services. He pleaded that the same energy  be deployed in a bid to  facilitate the release of  others still being held hostage, including Lilian Gyang, a 100-Level student of the University of Maiduguri.