The magic of the FA Cup continues on Saturday through to Monday when the third-round ties take place. Aside from some potential Cupsets, there could be some young talents who impress for their respective clubs. Emile Smith Rowe (Arsenal) Slowly but surely optimism is creeping back into Arsenal under new manager Mikel Arteta. The Spaniard has recalled first-team players shunted out by his predecessor Unai Emery to good effect – with the likes of Lucas Torreira and Mesut Ozil taking their opportunities. The 19-year-old is yet to feature under the Spaniard but has made six first-team appearances this season. Jacob Ramsey (Aston Villa) The 18-year-old has only played once for Aston Villa so far this season – making a substitute appearance in their 3-1 Carabao Cup third-round win at Brighton in September. However, Jacob Ramsey is highly-rated by those at the club. The midfielder, who made his Villa debut last season at West Brom, has been part of first-team training on a regular basis this term as manager Dean Smith keeps tabs on him. Jude Bellingham (Birmingham) Despite being just 16, Jude Bellingham already has a £2.5million valuation – such is his talent. The central midfielder oozes composure that bellies his age, while his spatial awareness in and out of possession is a joy to behold. Bellingham also has an eye for goal. He broke Trevor Francis record as Birmingham’s youngest debutant broken when he made his bow at 16 years and 38 days. Tariq Lamptey (Chelsea) Frank Lampard handed the 19-year-old his debut on Sunday as Chelsea came from behind to win 2-1 at Arsenal in the Premier League. The defender impressed on Chelsea’s right flank and was unlucky not to register an assist after playing an excellent pass through to Tammy Abraham. ‘He has pace, a low centre of gravity and can go by people,’ Lampard said post-match. Brandon Pierrick (Crystal Palace) The teenager made his debut on New Year’s Day and played a part in helping Crystal Palace earn a point at Norwich City. Pierrick, who only turned 18 last month, passed the ball to Wilfried Zaha, who set up Connor Wickham’s late equaliser at Carrow Road in a 1-1 draw. In his own words he is ‘direct, quick and powerful’ and he showed glimpses of those attributes against the Canaries.  Harvey Elliott (Liverpool) Sadio Mane, Roberto Firmino and Mohamed Salah. The most in-form front three in the world right now. Despite that, Liverpool have another gem of a frontline player in Harvey Elliott on their books. The 16-year-old has impressed whenever given a first-team opportunity – most notably in the Carabao Cup quarter-final 5-0 defeat at Aston Villa. He’s highly-rated by manager Jurgen Klopp with the left-footed starlet regularly training with the first-team. Eric Garcia (Manchester City) Manchester City’s problems in central defence are well documented but in Eric Garcia, they have a player who could help solve their problems for years to come. The 18-year-old has been used fleetingly by manager Pep Guardiola so far – making just nine appearances. Brandon Williams (Manchester United) He only made his first-team debut in September, but Brandon Williams has excelled whenever given an opportunity by Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. The 19-year-old has made 12 appearances in all competitions since and is vying with Luke Shaw for the left-back berth. Ricky Jade-Jones (Peterborough) Ricky Jade-Jones is one player who has caught the eye in League One this season – so much so that he has a host of Premier League clubs chasing his signature. The two Manchester clubs, Tottenham, Arsenal, Liverpool and Leicester are among the teams to have watched him this season. Jones signed a new deal on his 17th birthday in November with with Peterborough – who value him at more than £2m. Troy Parrott (Tottenham) Cometh the hour, cometh the boy? Troy Parrott is Tottenham’s only fit natural striker in light of talisman Harry Kane’s hamstring injury during the 1-0 Premier League defeat at Southampton on New Year’s Day. He’s also been capped at international level, having made his Republic of Ireland debut in November. •Culled from Sportsmail.