Desmond Mgboh, Kano Elder statesman, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai has expressed concern over recent judicial in Nigeria, saying that the outcome reinforces the perception that the judiciary appears to have been thoroughly intimidated under the present dispensation. Yakasai was reacting to Tuesday’s surprise verdict of the Supreme Court, announcing Senator Hope Uzodinma, the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, as the winner of the 2019 governorship elections held in Imo State. He said although he was not a member of PDP or any political party in Nigeria he, nevertheless sympathised with the supporters of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State over their loss,  regretting that their initial euphoria and jubilation over the election was rather short-lived even as he expressed worry that, “a junior Okorocha is out while a senior Okorocha is in Imo State.” He noted that the victory of the APC in Imo State, seen alongside the party’s recent victory in Bayelsa State, means that the military-style strategy adopted by the ruling party has finally made them get  an inroad into the southeastern axis of the country, which until now had remained impenetrable to them. Surprised by the judgement of the Supreme Court, Alhaji Tanko hinted that the ruling APC appears determined to secure in court what they could not secure with the ballot box, saying that the party has established a curious pattern of winning power through the court of law rather than on election grounds. The Second Republic politician also maintained that the APC could accept to lose at the ballot boxes, the tribunal or even at the Court of Appeal, but would deploy all its arsenals to be the winner at the Supreme Court. “The present political situation in the country should be a matter of concern to all the lovers of true democracy… the country needs a committed election commission, robust judiciary and the courageous media if it is to sustain the struggle for true democracy in Nigeria,” he declared The opposition must realise that they are fighting opponents that have over the time been busy concentrating all political and economic power in our nation under their control and of making their party be in control of not only state power but financial and economic powers as well. And they are doing this through threats and intimidation. “My concern is that we seem to be progressively moving towards a one-party state… because the choice to oppose or to remain in the opposition political parties is gradually being undermined by these sorts of experience from the institutions that are supposed to be the vanguard of the nation’s march towards democracy.” While stressing that the verdict should serve as a real lesson for the forces pushing for true democracy in Nigeria, he advised the losers to go back to the drawing board and re-strategise in order to be stronger in future electoral contests.” 