Virtually everyone loves adventures. Sometimes, we get to create our very own, while in other cases we only get to ride along. Whatever the case may be, we savor the unpredictability of events, and we cherish the experiences that come along; clinging on to every memory until we find ourselves in the midst of another epic scene, and on and on, we go, writing and rewriting history. The Infinix adventure has seen many come aboard and it has been a swell ride so far. Following their core brand message ‘The future is now’ they have taken us on an exclusive fun ride into the future; bringing cutting-edge technologies to our palms that have now shaped how we interact and do business. The Infinix adventure started less than a decade ago, and it is amazing to see how they have endeared themselves to many. The brand has been at the fore of innovations, embracing rapid technological advancements as well as the change in fashion trends and combined both elements to give us the best of both worlds. In an era where smartphone photography has become the rave, and multiple rear cameras the tool for pictorial perfection, the brand has debuted its versatile quad-camera smartphone – S5 – that has proven to be efficient in capturing different scenes under varying light conditions. Uncertain of what to expect from the brand, we anticipate the unveiling of a futuristic designs with consumer-centred specifications and at all times the premium smartphone brand has met our expectations with satisfaction. The S5 was launched November last year. To the joy of smartphone enthusiast, the device adopted a quad camera setup with 16MP main camera + 2MP super Macro + 5MP wide angle camera + 2MP depth sensor. Among other features of the device was the 32MP selfie camera placed in the infinity-O display of the 6.6-inch screen. The device has ever since been the subject of many conversations around excellent smartphone photography. In the midst of all these epic smartphone releases, we’ve also seen a series of initiatives that have catered to the basic needs of its target audience. There was the 7x money-back promo in April, Hot 8 challenge in August and the Styled by Infinix S5 in the final quarter of the year. All of these activities saw many winners walk away with amazing cash prizes and a massive wardrobe allowance. Infinix mobility has made it a culture to get into lifestyle-conscious activities. Hence, they thrilled fans to a couple of such activities in the previous year.