Chijioke Agwu, Abakaliki President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, assured that no part of the country will be allowed to suffer any neglect because of its geopolitical location or political consideration under his watch. He said his administration was truly  committed to entrenching justice, equity and fair play in distribution of all social amenities across the country. Buhari spoke at Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching  Hospital ,Abakaliki, Ebonyi State,  while commissioning flood and erosion control works executed by the federal government through the Ecological Fund Office. Buhari who was represented at the occasion by the Minister of Science and Technology,  Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, explained that the project was executed  to checkmate flooding and gully erosion menace within the teaching hospital and it’s environs. The Minister said that the age long problem of gully erosion and flooding in the South East cannot be overemphasized. He expressed optimism that the project as completed will end erosion problem in the hospital. “I have no doubts in my mind  that this Federal Government’s intervention  will bring a huge relief to this Teaching  Hospital which has for a very long time been stressed  by these ecological  challenges. I hereby formerly  on behalf of the Federal Government, commission  and handover this project to the Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki. The Minister further commended  the Secretary  to the Government  of Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha and his team in the Ecological  Fund Office as well as the contractors and consultants who handled the project for their commitment in delivery quality job and on time too. Permanent Secretary, Ecological Fund Office, Dr. Habiba  Lawal, earlier in her remarks said the project which was initiated  through a request for an urgent intervention forwarded to their office by the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the hospital,  Dr.  Emeka Onwe, was among the 11 federal government’s ecological intervention projects for the 3rd quarter of 2018.