Maduka Nweke After reviewing the speed with which Federal Government executed project contracted to its various agencies, some stakeholders in the industry doubt the ability of the first tier government to execute the four million housing units it promised for 2023. According to Antonio Mande, a Quantity Surveyor, when we see the project completed, then we believe, otherwise, there are a lot of projects promised but not executed. He advised government to start projects they can complete and not the type that bloat people’s mind. The Federal Government had recently promised to address housing deficit by delivering one million houses per year to close the 17 million shortfall by the year 2033. The Minister of State, Works and Housing, Mr Abubakar Aliyu, disclosed this in Abuja on Saturday during an inspection of the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) mass housing project in Zuba, Federal Capital Territory. Aliyu said the government had decided to improve on current construction of 100,000 houses per years in order to meet the basic needs of the people. “The production now is low; we are constructing 100,000 houses per year and we hope to improve it by constructing one million houses per year in order to close the gap of 17 million to 20 million housing deficits by the year 2033. “That is the target of government, we are committed to doing that and to ensure that the programmes, policies are accomplished “We will provide enabling environment to attract investors into the sector to help solve the problem of housing deficit in the country and to achieve the government’s  goal by 2033,’’ he said. Aliyu also said that the problems associated with acquisition of land would be addressed. Speaking on the Zuba project, the minister said it was designed specifically to address the huge housing deficit for the middle  and low income earners. He said the project which was to be completed by August was delayed because of the rainy season. The minister gave assurance that the government would deliver the project as soon as possible. “We will ensure that the project is completed soon, because it is one of our primary focuses. “That is why it is our first point of call after inauguration,’’ he said. Mr Umar Gonto, Acting Managing Director, FHA reiterated government’s commitment to ensuring that the common Nigerians have access to affordable housing He said that the project was among many others spread across the country by the federal government. Gonto said that the houses were designed for low-income earners both in the public and private sector and the self-employed, once they meet up with the criteria.