Uche Usim, Abuja The 2019 fiscal year was a challenging one for every Nigerian regardless  of gender or class. A lot of unexpected developments with far-reaching economic consequences occurred;  ranging from total border closure to widening of the list of items barred from accessing foreign exchange via the official forex window. Unemployment, poverty, insecurity, were the headwinds that retarded the growth of the country. From the poor man on the street to the bourgeoisie sitting atop the social ladder, the heat of an ailing economy struggling to stabilize was felt by everyone. The year, which started on a slow note, was also a challenging one for banks due to the steady and continuous slide in the price of crude oil in the international market. It shrunk the profitability of many banks, as the Nigerian economy depends 80 per cent on oil revenue and public sector funds. Nigerian banks were under pressure in terms of maintaining their held positions. More so, the stress test by the regulator, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) did not favour some of them who have begun secret merger talks. The general elections put banks under pressure as politicians jostled for the available funds to support their campaigns. Thus to hedge against collapse and to meet up with obligations to their customers, banks rushed to the CBN credit window. However, despite the headwinds, Access and Diamond Banks consummated their merger within the first quarter of the year, becoming the largest bank in Nigeria by assets size. The CBN, in its quest to buoy the economy, rolled out a plethora of interventionist measures, especially in the agricultural space via the anchor borrowers programme. But despite the audacious moves, the World Poverty Clock shocked the federal government, when it revealed that 91,885,874 people in Nigeria now live in extreme poverty (less than $1.9 or N693.5 per day). In June 2018, the World Poverty Clock named Nigeria the poverty capital of the world with statistics showing that 87 million people live in poverty. The latest numbers indicate that from June 2018 to June 2019, four million Nigerians have joined the poverty club occasioned by factors such as unemployment, insecurity, among others. Industry records show that the Nigerian economy recorded 2.3 per cent GDP growth this year, particularly in the telecoms sector. More so, agricultural growth increased slightly, but remained blighted by insurgency in the northeast region, and incessant farmer-herder conflicts. Oil sector growth remained stable, but manufacturing production slowed due to the fragile power supply sector. Overall, the slow pace of recovery in 2019 is attributable to weak consumer demand and lower public and private investment. According to the World Bank, the country’s growth outlook is vulnerable to domestic and global risks. It is facing a sharper than expected slowdown in the global economy, as well as geo-political and trade tensions. While that simmered, the Debt Management Office (DMO) disclosed in October that Nigeria’s total debt, as at June 30, stood at N27.7 trillion, economic watchers were shocked that a whopping N3.32 trillion was added to the existing debt stock in one year. While experts processed a possible debt repayment strategy the government could adopt, the Senate came up with a heavier  shocker, saying that it would approve the $29.69 billion loan request of President Muhammadu Buhari that was left stranded at the eighth Senate. According to the debt figures of DMO, the Federal Government owed N20.42 trillion as at June 30, 2019, while the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory had a total debt stock of N5.28 trillion. Further breakdown shows that the debt profile comprises N8.32 trillion ($27.16bn) external debt and N17.38trn borrowed locally. The nation’s public debt, which stood at N22.38 trillion in June 2018, increased to N24.39 trillion in December 2018 and N24.95 trillion in March 2019. Although the DMO insists the loans were long tenured obligations channeled to infrastructure, experts raised the red flag that Nigeria was being boxed into a debt trap. A former Chief Executive Officer, Nigeria Economic Summit Group (NESG), Prof. Anya O. Anya, at a lecture in Lagos recently said Nigeria’s economy was faced with two fundamental obstacles. “While the economy is growing at a miserly rate of two per cent, the population is growing currently at 3.8 per cent nearly double the economic rate of growth. “This showed that there is a fundamental dissonance between demography and the economy”. The CBN in its September MPC meeting warned of the rising debt of the country. The World Bank and political leaders of Nigeria including Chief Olusegun Obasanjo are also worried. Domestically, the predictability of macroeconomic policies, the pace of structural reforms, and the country’s security situation are the main risks. Without structural reforms, growth is projected to remain stable, averaging 2.1 per cent in 2020-2021. On August 20, the Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Customs Service, Hameed Ali, announced the commencement of “Exercise Swift Response”, a land border military and paramilitary operation that banned goods from entering or exiting Nigeria. The action has drawn divergent analysis from various stakeholders. While many say the action is a pathway to a liberated economy, another set of stakeholders described it as a brutish, archaic and grave misstep that will plant the nation on a retrogressive path. While the Nigeria Customs Service insists it has generated much higher revenue for the government during the operation, hundreds of Nigerians small and medium enterprises have closed shops because they can no longer sell their goods to neighbouring West African nations under the ECOWAS Trade Liberalization Scheme (ETLS). They insist their volume of trade was too low to necessitate moving the goods via ships. However, the World Bank urged President Buhari to increase domestic revenue, remove trade restrictions and improve the predictability of economic policy. It also advised the Nigerian government to remove expensive fuel subsidies, adding that failure to take actions would see more Nigerians falling into extreme poverty. “With population growth (estimated at 2. 6 per cent) outpacing economic growth in a context of weak job creation, per capita income is falling . Today, an estimated 100 million Nigerians live on less than $1. 90 per day. “Close to 80 per cent of poor households are in northern Nigeria, while employment creation and income gains have been concentrated on central and southern Nigeria. While unemployment grew by 43 per cent in 2018, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) is yet to release the 2019 figures, which many believe will be higher. Food inflation went from 11 per cent in 2018 to 12 per cent in 2019, while the government earned N2.8 trillion in the first nine months in 2019. Commenting on the 2019 economic year, Dr. Bongo Adi, an Economist at the Lagos Business School said the CBN has heavily intervened in boosting the fortunes of the real sector (SMEs). “The new initiative of 65 per cent loans to deposit ratio (LDR) to private sector by the banks will trigger production, guarantee more job creation and ultimately help tackle insecurity”, he said. But among all interventions of CBN, the most soothing to the banking public was the announcement of revised bank charges that take effect January 1, 2020. Under the new rule, Card Maintenance Fee (CAMF) has been removed on all cards linked to current accounts, a maximum of one naira per million for customer induced debit transactions to third parties and transfers or lodgments to the customers’ account in other bank on current accounts only, reduction in the amount payable for cash withdrawals from other banks’ Automated Teller Machines (Remote-on-us), as well as from N65 to N35, after the third withdrawal within one  month. Other reductions include Advance Payment Guarantee (APG) which is now pegged at maximum of one per cent (1 per cent) of the APG value in the first year and 0.5 per cent for subsequent years on contingent liabilities. On debit card charges, the new guideline stipulates that a one-off charge of N1,000 applies to the issuance of cards, irrespective of card type (regular or premium).  The same one-off charge of N1,000 applies for the replacement of debit cards at the customer’s instance for lost or damaged cards. In the same vein, upon expiry of existing cards, customers are to pay the same one-off charge of N1,000 irrespective of card type. Conversely, no charge shall be required for pre-paid card loading/unloading. The current NIP charges apply to use of Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD), purchase with cash-back will attract a charge of N100 per N20,000 subject to cumulative N60,000 daily withdrawal. Also, for cards linked to savings account, a maintenance fee has been reduced to a maximum of N50 per quarter from N50 per month amounting to only N200 per annum instead of N600. Furthermore, there will be no more charges for reactivation or closure of accounts such as savings, current and domiciliary accounts while status enquiry at the request of the customer (like confirmation letter, letter of non-indebtedness and reference letter) will now attract a fee of N500 per request. On Current Account Maintenance Fee (CAMF), the guideline expressly stated that this would be applicable only to current accounts in respect of customer-induced debit transactions to third parties and debit transfers/lodgments to the customer’s account in another bank. It emphasized that CAMF is not applicable to Savings Accounts. The CBN carried out the review of the Guide, which also prescribes charges permissible for other financial institutions and non-bank financial institutions, in order to align with market developments. The apex bank has also released billions of naira to stimulate local production of rice, wheat, palm oil, cotton and many other crops as a way of boosting export, conserving foreign exchange and creating employment.