Isaac Anumihe, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the constitution of two  committees for the Mambilla Hydroelectric Power Project in Taraba State. They are the Inter-ministerial Steering Committee (IMSC) and Project Delivery Committee (PDC). While Minister of Power, Sale Mamman, will chair the Inter-ministerial Steering Committee,  the Director in-charge of Renewable Energy in the Federal Ministry of Power will head the  Project Delivery Committee, reporting to the Minister of Power through the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry. Members of the Inter-ministerial Steering Committee are representatives of Federal Government agencies and Taraba State government.  The Federal Government agencies involved are Ministries of Water Resources, Environment, Finance, Budget and National Planning, Works and Housing, Justice, Information and Culture, and Mines and Steel Development. Others are representatives of the Secretary to the Governent of the Federation (OSGF), National Security Adviser (NSA),  Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), and the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). The terms of reference of the Inter-ministerial Steering Committee include facilitating and fast-tracking the execution and project delivery of the Mambilla Hydroelectric power project; finalising within six months the review of the project engineering and technical design concept to achieve optimal  efficiency and benefit the immediate target market (the Northeast geopolitical zone); as well as obtaining approval of the Loan Facility from the China Exim Bank for the off-shore component of the project based on the reviewed contract price. The Inter-ministerial Steering Committee will be supported by Project  Delivery Committee, which will be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the project in line with agreed timelines and deliverables, including design of a framework for post-project operational management that will ensure that the project starts performing from the point of delivery. Also, an independent consultant will serve as a project coordinator to coordinate the administrative and stakeholder aspects of project implementation. According to a statement, the Federal Ministry of Power is expected to announce the dates for the inauguration of the committees soon.