By Charles Nwaguji and Merit Ibe The National Association  of Chambers of Commerce Industries Mines and Agriculture (NACCCIMA) has called on manufacturers to improve  on the quality  of goods to make them compete internationally. The Association  made  the call in view of the  African Continental Free Trade Agreement which is billed to start  in January. National President, Saratu Iya-Aliyu, made the remark at the ongoing 2020  Lagos international Trade Fair, organised by the Lagos Chamber of Commerce  and Industry. Iya-Aliyu also urged  the Federal Government to intensify  efforts at going development of infrastructure in this region as the improvement  in power, road and rail will significantly  improve the conduct of business in the zone, improve the economy and country at large. The NACCCIMA boss applauded the Chamber for organising the fair despite the challenges posed by the pandemic, noting that the theme of this year’s fair which is “Connecting Businesses, Creating Value” is   a confirmation of the determination to maintain the mission of the fair for over three decades. She admitted that the emergence of COVID-19 has made it a very difficult  year for the global economy and Nigeria as private sector operators and businesses  have been negatively impacted in addition to the #Endsars protests and loss of lives, government  and private properties. While sympathising  with the people  of Lagos State over the EndSARS damages and applauding  efforts  to rebuild the state, she commended the resolve of the state government  to support  small businesses (SMEs) through different  strategies including digital training and the Lagos State Trust Fund (LSTF) for businesses which are steps in right direction, which we hope to open up opportunities for youths.” “The unexpected emergence of COVID-19 has resulted in movement of businesses to online and digital platforms which has now become the new normal.  It has forced business operators to take a fresh look at conducting business  with the aid of technology as we continue to take precautionary measures on the effects of the pandemic and work to stop the spread of the virus and its effect on the economy. “It has been a very difficult  year for the global economy and Nigeria as private sector operators and businesses  have been negatively impacted. The EndSARS protests complicated the situation with its attendant  loss of lives, government and  private properties. “The fair which continues  to attract participants from home and abroad , has proved  to be a veritable platform for customers, investors,  business  men and women to network and  expand their expertise in the geo-business and internationally. It’s a unique  one: physical and virtual…” “ Provides opportunity  for online business transactions and hope participants who are physically here can take advantage of the ecosystem to participate  in the fair. Exhibitors both business men and women at the fair were enjoined to take advantage and opportunity the fair offers  “as your involvement will be greatly  rewarded.” 