From Ighomuaye Lucky, Benin Edo State Chapter of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT),  yesterday, issued a 14-day strike notice  to the state government over alleged failure to meet its financial obligation and other entitlements. Recall that the union had on December 8, 2020 gave the state government 21-day ultimatum to fulfill all its promises  or embark on an indefinite industrial action. The communiqué for the 14-day strike notice,  dated December 29, 2020, signed  by Pius Okhueleigbe, state chairman, Moni Mike Modesty, Assistant General Secretary and four others, was made available to newsmen in Benin City. In the communiqué, the union noted that the 14-day ultimatum which takes effect from Tuesday, 29 December 2020, was to enable the Edo State government meet its demands to the union. It said the decision for the ultimatum was taken at the union’s enlarged state wing executive council meeting held on December 29, 2020. According to the communique, the  union observed that Edo state government has not taken any tangible step aimed at meeting the demands of the union during the 21-day ultimatum. “It agreed that Edo Best Programme needs urgent surgical examination to determine “its true state of health” so that government will be able to correct the “seeming window-dressing” and improve on the fortunes of the programme. “It also agreed that the contributory pension scheme started in 2017 in Edo state. “It however, observed that if primary school teachers are to enroll, the tier of government that will be responsible for the monthly remittance of 10 percent to the pension account of individual teachers must have the resources to do so as well as cater for the accrued gratuity entitlements of teachers prior to the commencement of the scheme, as provided in the law”,it said. The union, who said that its called for the removal of Mary Oseghale as the Acting Education Secretary of Esan North-East local government authority still stands, also declared her as persona non grata. It however, urged the primary school teachers in the state to continue to mobilize for an indefinite strike action while awaiting further directives on take-off date, from the state wing executive. However, the Edo state council of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), has thrown its full weight behind the proposed strike by the primary school teachers. The NLC gave its nod to the NUT’s proposed strike in a letter titled “Re:Communique” dated, December 16, 2020 and signed by its acting secretary, Barry Osaro Imade. 