The Kaduna State Government has earmarked the sum of N970 million for rural feeder roads projects in 2021, under its Ministry for Local Government Affairs. This is contained in the breakdown of N1.9 billion allocated to the ministry for capital projects in the 2021 approved budget document. The document obtained by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kaduna on Saturday, showed that N71 million was allocated for rural electrification, and N578 million for purchase and installation of transformers. The budget further showed that N173.9 million was allocated for Kauru local government’s special rural electrification intervention, and N111.9 million for the construction and renovation of Emirs and Chiefs palaces. The state government also allocated N14.3 billion to the Kaduna State Road Agency for capital projects in 2021, of which N7.6 billion was allocated for township roads projects, and N3.4 billion for state trunk roads. The document also showed that N1.9 billion was allocated for the ongoing construction of Kawo bridge, N94.7 million for the construction of box culvert, and N94 million allocated for road signages and markings. Also, N147.8 million was earmarked for the beautification of Bus Rapid Transit lanes and road pavement phase II, while N132.9 million was allocated for the design and construction of double coat surface dressed roads. A total of N775.5 million was allocated for the provision of Infrastructure at new layouts, and N141 million for the purchase of plants and equipment. Similarly, N13.9 billion was allocated to the Ministry of Public Works and Infrastructure for capital projects, out of which N61.1 million would be spent on light rail transport project. The document showed that N3.9 billion would be spent on the construction and rehabilitation of roads as well as consultancy services and N2.0 billion on the provision of infrastructure at new layouts. It also indicated that N3.1 billion would be spent on the provision of solar perimeter lighting at Zaria 150 million litre a day Water Treatment Plant, and N24 million on Infrastructure Master Plan. It equally showed that N2.5 billion would be spent on the provision of integrated solar powered streetlights in Kaduna, Zaria and Kafanchan, and N75.2 million on provision of solar powered traffic signal control systems in the same locations. Also, N564 million was earmarked for the purchase of water treatment chemicals and other consumables, and N282 million for the rehabilitation and retrofitting of water works and selected networks extension. The document further showed that consultancy services for Greater Kaduna Water Supply Expansion Project got N188 million, while N23.5 million was allocated for the upgrading, repairs, and rehabilitation of the Central Mechanical Workshop Skills Acquisition centre. It equally showed that N1.0 billion was allocated for the construction and rehabilitation of dams and N50 million for consultancy services and engineering design for Birnin Gwari and Kachia Water Supply Projects. The budget document also showed that N6.3 billion was allocated to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development of which N3.1 billion was for the construction and acquisition of new State Government administrative buildings. Construction of low-income mass housing got N1.9 billion, construction of green parks, N141.4 million, while mortgage interest rate subsidy got N470 million. It further showed that N614.4 million was earmarked for the construction of a block of studios and administrative buildings for Kaduna State Media Corporation. (NAN) 