 From Felix Ikem, Nsukka Prof. Charles Igwe, the Vice Chancellor of University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) has commended Mr Nnamdi Mbaigbo, the Managing Director, Tropical Gate Ltd for his contributions to sport development in his Alma mater. The VC made the commendation Thursday, in Nsukka, during the UNN 2020 staff games grand finale at the instructions Akanibim stadium. He thanked Mbaigbo for remebering to give back to his alma mater that prepared and equipped him for the future, describing him as a supper lion. According to him, “Mbaigbo is a worthy ambassador and super lion of UNN for remembering and contributing immensely to sports development in your alma mater. “I urge other alumni to emulate your good example and contributie their quota in developing and taking UNN to a greater height,” he said. Earlier in a remark, Mbaigbo said that he will continue to sponsor UNN Staff Games as a way of giving back to his alma mater. Mbaigbo, an alumnus of UNN has been sponsoring the institution’s staff games since 2018 which features Football football Match and Track and Field. He said he would forever remained grateful to his alma mater who made him what he is today. “‘The game is meant to ensure that staff are physical and mentally fit to carry out their duties. “I am sponsoring the games as my little way to give back to the university that mede me what I am now,” he said. Mbaigbo who is also the MD of Freightmart Ltd and Karatos Marimus Ltd commended thr active participation and spirit of sportsmanship displayed by participating teams from faculties since the game started. “I am happy on active participation, spirit of sportsmanship by participating teams as well as good handling of the game by Local Organising Committee (LOC). “UNN as my alma mater is important and strategic to me in all I do. as institution that prepared and equipped for the future,” he said. He expressed special thanks to his classmate and close friend who is a lecturer at UNN, Dr Whyte Nwankwo for introducing the idea of sponsoring the game to him. Also in a remark, Mr Tony Ugwu, Chairman Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) in Enugu State applauded Mbaigbo for investing football. Ugwu said footballl had been a unifying factor that promote peace and unity among people irrespective of their religion, tribe or political affiliations. Also speaking, Mr Benjamin Njoku, the Director of Sports UNN said that the annual competition had gone a long way in keeping staff of UNN fit and strong. Njoku said UNN staff would forever remained grateful to the suspensor as the game had helped discover hidden talents in sports in the university. The director however, appealed to the suspensor to help donate a bus
to UNN sports department to ease logistics problems. Earlier, Nwankwo the LOC Chairman expressed happiness on the success of UNN staff games since 2018 Mbaigbo started the sponsorship. “I salute the sponsor for his philanthropist gesture, who has shown himself as super Lion of UNN and lover of his alma mater. “I appreciate the support of university management and commitment of members of LOC in ensuring success of the tournament since 2018,” he said. Faculty of Social Science trashed Faculty of Biological Science 1 – 0 to win UNN 2020 Staff football competition for for third time in a row. 