From Mohammed Munirat Nasir, Gusau Former governor of Zamfara state and the leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Alhaji Abdul’Aziz Yari Abubakar has disclosed that there is tendencies that the APC might not participate in the Bakura State Constituency bye election rerun slated for Wednesday if security is not guaranteed. Yari made the disclosure while briefing journalists after meeting of the APC stakeholders at his residence in Talata Mafara town, in Talata Mafara local government area. Yari accused governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle and top government functionaries of Zamfara State of conniving with some security personnel to manipulate the bye election in favour of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He accused the Senator representing Zamfara West, Senator Lawal Hassan Daniya, a member house representative Kabiru Amadu Maipalace, PDP State Chairman, Tukur Danfulani of aiding and abetting thugs in multiple ballot box snatching. Yari also accused commissioners of Finance Rabiu Garba, that Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs Yahaya Chado,, and that of Agriculture Dr. Yarkofoji of ballot box snatching during the bye election which was declared inconclusive. The former governor said if proper arrangements are not put in place by the security agencies that will ensure that the safety of APC members and supporters are guaranteed, the party will not risk the lives of its members and supporters to participate in the conclusion of the election on Wednesday. “What happened on Saturday cannot be described as an election but a sham. It is very unfortunate that the security agencies who are supposed to ensure peaceful conduct of the election are those who were aiding and abetting top government functionaries and PDP members to snatch ballot boxes. “If this is still what is going to happen during the rerun, we APC will not participate because what we want is free and fair election and not the political rascality displayed by the PDP government on Saturday,” he said.
In their separate reactions, some of the PDP members accused the former governor described the allegations by Yari as a sign of defeat. The Chairman PDP Bakura State Constituency Bye-election Committee, 2020, Senator Lawal Hassan Daniya representing Zamfara West Senatorial District said the former governor from all indications is seeking for cheap public sympathy. Daniya chides Yari and the APC for attempting to rig the bye election through the use of thugs. “It is important here for every democracy lover to condemn the attitude of the APC in recruiting thugs, especially from the Zuru area of Kebbi State through Bukkuyum to Dakko and Damri wards who willfully and wantonly came and unleashed mayhem in the elections. “Our major concern however, was the use of officials in uniform to protect the misdeeds of violators of the law. We have noted with dismay how some security operatives turned a blind eye to the activities of thugs and went on to provide cover and protection to their sponsors against perceived violence,” he alleged. Senator Daniya said despite the cancellation of elections in 14 polling units, the PDP squarely won the polls. “It is noteworthy that all the wards cancelled are our stronghold where the votes tally were all won by the PDP. But the Independent National Electoral Commission has cancelled them and declared the elections inconclusive.
At this juncture, the PDP wishes to further state that it has no objection to INEC wisdom in denying us immediate victory, but we want to assure the general public that we are ready to once again, participate in the bye-election for the second time in order to conclude our victory whenever the electoral body decides,” he said. The state Commissioner of Finance, Alhaji Rabiu Garba said the accusations by former governor Yari was lamentable considering how APC was claiming that the PDP was going to loose the bye election. “It is very unfortunate and pathetic that a governor for 8 years would go on air to be telling lies about what does not happen simply because he has for seen great defeat. He should as a politician accept defeat and prepare for future instead of disgracing himself with these lies,” he said. Garba said the threat by Yari to pull out of the Wednesday’s rerun was a way of dogging political humiliation. “Tell him not to run away, he should continue because it is too late for him now to be considering not participating the the rerun on Wednesday. We are going to defeat him hands down. “Those he telling lies that he is on the ground in Zamfara will realize soon after his defeat that he is not in charge. He said participate and be disgraced,” he said. 