Security is an evolving  proactive phenomenon  but when it is static, its potency becomes ineffective, so l wrote  many years back in 2017. When the concept of Community policing programme  was first introduced into the Nigeria Police operational  strategic system in 2003 by  the foresighted lnspector General of Police, Mr Tafa Balogun, many did not  applaud his  innovative move. Sponsoring  five senior police officers including a female to the United Kingdom and the United State of America. Unfortunately, the project  was comatosed after his exist from office and subsequent administration packed it up like a pack of  unused cards. This has been the bane of the  Nigeria police, and our political institutions.  Visions are killed for no justifiable reason. Some visions were killed  out of sheer envy and jealousy. Many visions are deleted  completely from record and memory for no justifiable reason. Visionary leaders  conceive positive ideas for the benefit of both the people and the institution. Today,  the present lnspector General of Police, Muhammadu Adamu who in 2003 was  still an Assistant  Commissioner of Police when Mr Balogun was the lGP. Coincidentally, Crime was at its peak during Balogun’s administration as we presently  experience . However, the track Adamu is taking with the reintroduction and reenactment  of  the Community Policing agenda, leaves much to be desired. By the way, what exactly is Community Policing.  According to experts, “Community policing is  the involving three key components: developing community partnerships, engaging in problem solving, and implementing community policing organizational features..” Adamu believes that Community Policing must be monitised. He believes that people should be recruited, trained, given uniform and paid for their service to their community and government.  It is baffling that Adamu repackaged  Community Policing that had been in existence in Nigeria for  seventeen years as if it is a new security strategy in Nigeria.  This writer attended many community policing training programme in Abuja, kaduna and Owerri. It was those initially trained abroad, retraining members of the public. Many of whom are  members of the Police Community Relations Commitee ( PCRC).  The question is,  what is  operationally difference  between Tafa Balogun’s Community Policing programs and Muhammadu Adamus  community policing programs, that would warrant the Federal Government  to approve and instantly release a whoophing  sum  of N13.3 billion  (about $35 million) to fund the launch and recruiting  of some 10,000 constables for the take-off of Community Policing . Even at that, the graph of kidnapping is on the increase without any feasible strategic solution on ground.  Across the world, community policing is the patriotic  spirit of the people at the community level, witnessing acts of criminality and ensuring a synergy  between the communities and security agencies. It was the disclosure  in 2016  by Mr Femi Ojodu, a senior special adviser on political affairs to the Vice President, at Sir Mike Okiro’s book entitled “ Nigeria: the restructuring controversy”, that President Muhammad Buhari  was planning to  reintroduce community policing .  Many had applauded  the presidency  proactive move on the  viability of  reintroducing the community policing.  So, when   on September 16, 2017 former lGP lbrahim Idris  rolled out the drums  to relaunch the programme  by  setting up a seven-man management committee that would work with his office and the police management team to monitor the programme  Community Policing Re-engagement Strategic Guidelines and Unveiling of Community Policing Logo in Abuja. He carried on as if  it was his idea, many were shocked. The purported  relaunched community policing  by lGP ldris  would have been commendable but when credit  and honour  were not ascribed to  lGP Balogun ,the original initiator  of community policing  and he should be credited as such. However, the recent relaunch  ceremony  by lGP Muhammad  Adams is seen as a wasteful  ceremony in this era of  economic recession . One would have expected more innovative input  rather than  monitization of the programs. This idea of  targeting to commercialize community policing may after all not augur well for the country.  Simply, Community policing is the  community people  seeing and observing security or criminal ills in their community where they reside and as patriotic citizens , offer to provide the information to security agencies. They should not be tempted by offering them any monetary  compensation  for recruiting or training them. It is simply “ See something, say something”.. Although Adam  claimed his repackaged community policing  pilot phase of the programme was aimed at establishing a clear departure from traditional policing that was reactive and incident-based. “It is on this premise that the Nigeria Police Force made the decision to review and develop a more inclusive strategic guidelines, “ adding that “the launch would create a better interactive relationship that would lead to improved support and cooperation from the various stakeholders, adding that the programme would build sustainable partnerships with local communities, authorities and security agencies, among others”. Despite all the coloration, the country under Adam had not experienced peace. Internal security which stops on his table has been catastrophic and damnably  shameful.  The list  and upsurge of criminalities  around the country , especially the northern parts of the country clearly shows  gross  exhibition of incompetence from an officer whom much was expected. As the holy book would describe: “ He went the way of his predecessor who have no legacy  attached to their tenure. For instance, all the major criminal incidents like suicide bombing , terrorism or other heinous crimes that had occurred in London  were foiled  with the help of Community policing structure. Same  cannot  be the case in Nigeria, where cases of criminalities would occur without detection. If  pass marks should be awarded to all the security agencies according to performance, no one would  blink an eye  before scoring the police low and the military, Customs and lmigrations services higher. Though belated, the Community policing programme should  have been the main cornerstone of Crime fighting  and prevention in the country by  President Buhari administration. Unfortunately  successive police administrations and governments only paid lip service to this great  but borrowed idea. The world over, communities are fashioned and integrated into the policing system thereby making it very impossible for criminals to berth  and  carry out their nefarious activitie.  Had other police administrations indegenised the Community police  programme, the country would have been reaping the fruit of such progressive idea.  A senior security personnel described Community policing as an ideology pointing that the re-launch should be extended to educational institutions and communities where this type of policing can be inculcated in all the  students. No wonder, strangers  are easily detected and reported to security agencies. In such communities, there exist cordial relationship  with security agencies unlike  in Nigeria, where what is obtainable is hatred for the police .It has snowballed into a ridiculous situation . The simple phrase “police is your friend”  is no longer attractive to Nigerians. The police must first warm itself  to the people by changing their behavioral way of carrying out their  professional duties which to many is still questionable. A time was, when the police was indeed the friend of the people, questions must be asked  of how  did the public relationship  wither away? Before the police can reassert itself , it should  first rebrand  the institution and relaunch the Community policing else, it would be like a new wine in an old bottle. 