From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has warned the country’s healthcare system is fragile and may not withstand the effect of a major outbreak of COVID-19 or other infections. It said there is an urgent need for a carefully thought through and action-oriented reform of the health sector that will improve the nation’s health security and place the country in a better position to manage future health threats. PTF National Coordinator, Sani Aliyu, made the disclosure at the official presentation of the end-of-year report by the task force, while summarising the three key lessons that must be carried forward. According to him, “COVID-19 will be with us for a while. Although, this is the new normal, it continues to be just as deadly. Nevertheless, we have shown it is possible to keep it in check through the work we have done – we must persevere and continue the communication and enforcement aspects required to keep us safe until the epidemic is over. “Next year will be about the COVID-19 vaccine. This is a huge challenge for the country and will require your leadership and continued commitment, Mr. President. All hands must be on deck to deliver and overcome the challenges of securing the supply of safe and effective vaccines, logistics and acceptance. “Our health system has been challenged by the COVID-19 pandemic. The country’s health system is fragile and may not withstand the effect of a major outbreak of COVID-19 or other infections. There is an urgent need for a carefully thought through and action-oriented reform of the health sector that will improve our health security and place the country in a better position to manage future health threats,” he said. Aliyu, while outlining the next steps to be taken by government to tackle the pandemic said: “As 2020 draws to a close, the PTF needs to redefine its role in the COVID-19 response and identify how to streamline into a lean but effective response body that will focus on tackling COVID-19 by sustaining the gains made while maintaining a reasonable level of readiness in response to this second surge of the pandemic but also other outbreaks in the future. “To this end, an end term review was held last week, and we agreed upon some key next steps that we must push for: Greater coordination with effective devolution to the states – states to ensure accountability on implementation of already funded activities – i.e., getting states to use the funds for the response effectively. “Improve sample collection and testing across all states. Collection of 400-450 samples across each of the 774 councils in the country must be instituted quickly. Also ramp up testing at our land borders, particularly Seme. “Increase and target risk communication messages against all demographics in the country “Addressing the 2nd surge via enforcement of Non-Pharmaceutical Interventions (NPIs). We know that NPIs are the most effective way to prevent the spread of this disease and for this, we must ensure they are adhered to while allowing essential economic activity to continue. “ 