With   the   second   wave   of   the   COVID-19   rising   worldwide, Chinese   Consulate   General,   together   with  a  Chinese conglomerate, Guangdong New South Group,  recently donated COVID-19 materials and anti-malaria drugs worth N27  to  both  Ogun State government and local communities. The donations   will   be   used   to   cope   with   the   developing COVID-19 pandemic and the spread of malaria. It   is   not   the   first time   that   China   has   showed  her   efforts  to strengthen   the   friendship   between   China   and   Nigeria.  Earlier this   year,   the   Chinese   government   donated   3   batches   of governmental   medical   supplies   to the Nigerian government.   The Chinese   Consulate   General   also   helped   the   Chinese communities   and   Chinese   companies   in   Nigeria   to donate   five batches   of   medical   supplies   as   well   as   cash   to   the   local communities, let alone the financial and material donations to local hospitals  and neighborhoods from  Chinese communities and Chinese individuals in Nigeria. Speaking during the presentation recently at the office of the Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Noimot Salako-Oyedele, the deputy governor thanked the Chinese Consulate General and  New South Group for the timely donation. The  Honourable  Commissioner  for  Health,  Mrs.  Tomi  Cokeralso thanked the Chinese Consulate General and New South Group for the kind gesture. She said: “ A look at the donations reveals that we have masks, gloves and anti-malarial drugs. The facemasks and gloves are the tools we use in fighting COVID-19 which  helps  the   health  care   workers  to   keep  themselves   safe while the anti- malarial drugs will help combat malaria in the state so the donation will be of great assistance. If you look at the COVID-19 curve, it is on the rise again and that means we could have a second wave. However, there is already COVID-19 fatigue. So this has come in a timely manner because our stocks are dwindling because we are moving on to other diseases so this  is going to  be distributed  to  our health  workers  and the general public.” The representative of the local community, President Igbesa Elite Club   and   High   Chief   of   the   Palace,   Otunba   Durojaiye,   also expressed his thanks during the community donation ceremony. He also   stated  that local  community   will   always   support  the friendship between China and Nigeria 