From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Abuja Mega Lions Club, District 404-A2 Nigeria, has earmarked a whooping sum of N29 million to rehabilitate the psychotherapy unit of Karu General Hospital, Abuja. Newly installed chapter President, Lion Anthonia C Opusunju, made the disclosure during a fund raising programme during her installation and Board of Directors for the club 2020/2021 Lions Service year in Abuja last weekend. She announced that the choice of the hospital rehabilitation project is in line with the club’s onerous task of advocacy, rehabilitation and reintegration of Nigerian youths faced with the challenges of addiction. Opusunju further explained that the project will specifically feature the renovation and equipping of the child and adolescents psychotherapy ward. “This unique opportunity of a lifetime to serve at a higher level within the Lions Clubs International is indeed a huge privilege and I do not take this for granted. I can only pray that God gives me the wisdom and ability to perform the tasks diligently and succeed together with my other board of directors and the entire members of this noble Club. “A saying in Hausa says that if you have not used your money to help someone, then your wealth/money is a useless one. So, it is with this in mind that we in Abuja Mega Lions Club have undertaken the onerous task of advocacy, rehabilitation and reintegration of Nigerian youths faced with the challenges of addiction as a fall out from the evil and catastrophic effects of drug abuse and substance. “The said project will also feature the renovation and equipping of the child and adolescents psychotherapy ward at Karu General Hospital, Karu, Abuja. During our needs assessment visit to the aforementioned hospital, the CMD made us realize that such a ward does not exist, that all the patients were lumped together in a common space which does not reflect international best practice as obtained in other climes across the globe. “It is therefore on this note that we seek support from well meaning Nigerians and lover of service to humanity requesting that you partner with us on this noble project to help recapture the leaders of tomorrow, promote standard and healthy practice, provide enabling environment for improved recovery rate and create room for best engagement to aid rehabilitation and reintegration of victims back into the society,” she said. The Mega Lions Club President further noted that apart from rehabilitation of the hospital, the club under her watch will embark on execution of other outreach projects, starting with the feeding the less privileged. “Every month, we usually execute one programme or the other. Like this month, we will embark on feed the hungry ones. We are going to the suburb to feed several of the residents. We are in a recession and everybody knows how much a bag of rice costs now. By the time we buy over bags, we will put smiles on their faces. You know what it takes to provide for such a poor community,” she noted. 