From Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja No fewer than 300,884 Nigerian refugees are currently in the Republic of Niger, Chad and Cameroon, data from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) Nigeria has shown. This was even as Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, her Women Affairs counterpart, Paulen Tallen, Minister of State, Budget and National  Planning, Clem Agba, Governor of Borno State, Babagana Zulum, Comptroller-General of Immigration, Muhammed Babandede, Director-General of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim, UNHCR Country  Representative, Chansa Kapaya and others, gathered in Abuja for the Stakeholders Meeting on the Implementation of the Global Compact on Refugees. Out of the numbers, Governor Zulum said 200,000 were from Borno State and have been yearning to return home. The data updated on November 30 gave the breakdown to include Nigerian refugees in Niger (168,081), Cameroon (116,960) and Chad (15,843). Also as at November 30, Nigeria recorded 66,031 registered refugees in the country from across the globe. The numbers of the refugees and their countries are Cameroon (63,603); Central African Republic (710); Democratic Republic of the Congo (652); Syrian Arab Republic (308); Mali (145); Cote d’Ivoire (136); Chad (87); Sudan (47); others (342). Speaking during the meeting, Kapaya said though Nigeria faced complex humanitarian challenges, it has been a generous host country to refugees and asylum-seekers for decades from within the region and far beyond and has provided a safe haven and access to essential life-saving basic services. Kapaya also said UNHCR and the Federal Government continued to record hundreds of new arrivals monthly, adding that  the refugees were hosted predominately in Cross River, Benue and Taraba. “The country has been home to over 61,000 refugees and asylum seekers who have sought refuge from neighbouring Cameroon, escaping from political tensions in the South West and North West of the country since 2017. UNHCR and the government of Nigeria continue to record hundreds of new arrivals every month, these refugees are hosted predominately in the South- South  in the states of Cross River, Benue and Taraba. The Country also hosts some 4,300 Urban refugees and asylum seekers living in various urban centers in Nigeria   mainly from the DRC, CAR, Cameron, Syria, Turkey, Mali, Cote D’Ivoire and others. “In addition, Nigeria faces a protracted humanitarian crisis in North East, particularly in the three states of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe which is now over a decade with a cycle of violence and displacements due to insurgency activities of NSAG that continues to create new emergencies. Despite a significant scale-up of humanitarian response since 2016, more and more Internally Displaced Persons have been forced to leave their homes with over  two million internally displaced, while another 300,000  Nigerians  displaced externally  and have  sought refuge  in the neighbouring  Lake  Chad Basin countries of Cameroon, Chad and Niger. The operating environment remains extremely volatile, particularly in Borno State for civilians, aid workers, humanitarian cargo and assets,” Kapaya said. 