The Lagos State Government has advised residents not to be carried away by the euphoria of the Yuletide as to ignore the necessary safety protocols that can help curb the spread of the deadly Coronavirus  (COVID-19). The Chief Resilience Officer (CRO), Mr Gbolahan Oki, said in a statement on Thursday that residents should comply with Convid-19 protocols as the world continued to experience the second wave of the deadly disease. He explained the activities of his organisation, the Lagos State Resilience Office (LASRO), in implementing resilience strategies toward curbing the spread of the virus, especially during the Yuletide. He maintained that the spread of the virus during the second wave could be curtailed through strict adherence to all COVID-19 safety guidelines and other regulations issued by health authorities. Oki warned residents to remain resilient and be genuinely committed to fighting the virus. “We can jointly fight Coronavirus to a standstill, we can stop its second coming if we are determined as a people. What we need do is to follow all government regulations and COVID-19 safety protocols in our homes, public places, motor garages and parks, especially during this festive period. I, therefore, urge our people not to be unnecessarily carried away by the euphoria of this season as to ignore those safety protocols, we must join hands with the state government to stop the spread of the deadly virus in our state,” Oki said. He said that not many countries of the world were as lucky and successful as Lagos State in the strategies adopted to fight the pandemic during the initial outbreak. The Chief Resilience Officer also urged the residents to support the state government in consolidating the gains earlier recorded to curb a further spread of the virus in public places. He commended Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu for showing good leadership in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The LASRO boss assured Nigerians that his agency, with the support of the state government, would continue to implement policies and resilience strategies toward ensuring that the residents, institutions, communities and businesses in the state remained resilient in the face of any challenge. Oki said that the state government was committed to building a new Lagos that would meet the vision of its founding fathers. (NAN) 