A new movie, 20 Pound Dream, from TED fellow and Nollywood director, Andy Amadi Okoroafor is now streaming on Showmax. 
The film features Gideon Okeke as Kene, who owns a Kung Fu studio in Nnewi, He is a disappointment to his family who wants him to help his father run the trading and manufacturing business he founded on a 20 pound dream after the Biafran War.
Kene’s lover, Nnenna (Chioma Idigo from Halita), convinces him to take a job as a police department informant at the other end of the world: Yokohama, Japan. The Afro-Chinese triad is making inroads into the ports there, so the police need a fresh face who has never been to Japan before, someone they can mould discreetly into their force as a ghost to the community.
In Yokohama, Kene is lost, badly informed and ill prepared for what he needs to do as an informant. He is also soon torn between his long distance relationship with Nnenna and the possibility of a new life with Mio (Tomoko Hayakawa) in Yokohama. His police work and its bloody consequences will take him to the darkest part of himself and back home to Nnewi for revenge.
“It’s a film about self-discovery, destiny, choice and how family can be the catalyst for the good and the bad that eventually happens to us,” Andy Okoroafor says. “Kene’s life and dreams are far away from the 20 pound dream his father and uncle restarted their lives with after the Biafran war, but, as we will discover, everything is tied to that dream.”
Shot on two continents, in Yokohama, Enugu, Nnewi, Onitsha, and Awka, the arthouse drama also stars Africa Movie Academy Awards’ nominees, Obi Okoli (Men on Hard Way), Tina Mba (The Set Up, Isoken), and Swanky JK (Living in Bondage); Senegalese Cesar nominee, Aissa Maiga (The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind, The African Doctor); and Japanese cast, Kenjiro Otani and Shinsho Nakamaru.
Andy and Gideon previously worked together on the 2010 film Relentless, also starring Jimmy-Jean Louis (the Haitian in Heroes) and Nneka, which opened the Africa International Film Festival and screened at the BFI London Film Festival.
Meanwhile, fans of Yoruba movies can now catch some of the biggest actors including Odunlade Adekola, Wumi Toriola, Bimpe Oyebade, Kemi Afolabi and many more on Showmax. Now, there’s a new blockbuster movie on Showmax every weeknight including Torera, Omo Williams, Kumapayi, Wasted, Imisi, Irele, Lucifer, Iran Meta, and Eji Owura. The movies air every Saturday at 19:00hr and Sunday at 19:30hr, plus episodes of Battleground everyday of the week at 18:00hr, and don’t miss Mr and Mrs Kogeregbe from December at 11:05hr every weekday.
Speaking about the addition of the pop-up live stream, Yolisa Phahle says, “We wanted to give our Nigerian subscribers even more value this December and a pop-up live stream of popular family channel Africa Magic Yoruba is ideal for the festive season.”
The Africa Magic Yoruba pop-up live stream will be available throughout December and into the New Year.  