From Paul Osuyi, Asaba The traditional ruler of oil rich Idjerhe Kingdom in Ethiope West Local Government Area of Delta State, Monday Obukohwo Whiskey, Udurhie I, has warned of grave consequences in the Niger Delta region following the appointment of a sole administrator for the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) by President Muhammadu Buhari. The monarch said the appointment was against the act establishing the commission two years ago, insisting that the development would spark another round of the crisis in the volatile region. Udurhie I made his position known when the Delta State council of the Nigeria Union of Journalist (NUJ) led by the chairman, Michael Ikeogwu, visited him in his palace at Jesse. He maintained that the NDDC Act of 2000 did not make provision for a sole administrator for the interventionist agency. Udhurie I therefore, called on President Buhari to urgently inaugurate the board that has been screened and confirmed by the Senate. “The situation in the Niger Delta today calls for serious immediate intervention of the Federal Government. I want to say very clearly and loudly that the attempt by any individual or group of individuals to foster a sole administration on the NCDC is totally unacceptable. “The NDDC is a Niger Delta affair and handing a budget of almost N500 billion to a sole administrator is not known to the laws that established the NDDC. “The Federal Government cannot pretend that all is well when an individual will be made to corner all the wealth of the region. “We also see the Niger Delta Ministry as the ministry of all Niger Deltans. So whatever happens in that ministry too is of serious concern to us,” the royal father added. He also advocated a constitutional role for the traditional institution, explaining that before the advent of the colonialists the royal institution was the bridge that brought the people together. “Today when there are tough situations in the community they will say go and call the king. But when everything is fine nobody will hear from the government. “The National Council of Traditional Rulers should be able to come together and advocate for constitutional duties for traditional rulers because governors will come and go but the king remains. There are certain things that the king will pass to the incoming governor if they have a constitutional duties,” he said. Earlier the Chairman of the NUJ in the state, Michael Ikeogwu described the enthronement of Udurhie I as a testimony to the fact that any man who believes in God and works tirelessly for his vision and mission must surely succeed. “Your kingship is a special one for us the NUJ because you were one of us before you were crowned. And I believe that you will not be in a hurry to leave us anytime soon. “We are convinced beyond any doubt that your reign in Idjere kingdom will bring development and peace. We know that you are a dogged fighter and we also know that you will do whatever it takes to make this kingdom prosperous,” Ikeogwu added. 