 From Rose Ejembi, Makurdi There was chaos at the Judges Quarters area of Makurdi on Monday after a security guard attached to the house of the Benue State chairman of All Progressive Congress (APC), Comrade Abba Yaro reportedly got electrocuted in his premises. Youths in the area had allegedly gone on rampage destroying Yaro’s property including vehicles, windows, air conditioners and among others to avenge the death of their friend. A resident of the area who simply gave his name as Timothy said trouble started after the wife of the APC Chairman directed the deceased security guard to prune the branches of a tree within the compound. “Unknown to the guy (security guard), the tree was touching a high tension wire that passes close to the compound. Even when other security drew his attention to it,he said he would prune the branches carefully. He added that as soon as the security guard approached the tree and attempted to strike it with a cutlass, he immediately got electrocuted and hung on the tree. “Angry youths were thereafter invaded the Chairman’s house, pulled down the gate and destroyed property in the house. The police and other security agencies quickly mobilised to the area to quell the situation while remains of the deceased security guard was said to have been deposited at the morgue of the Benue State University Teaching Hospital (BSUTH). Also, Governor Samuel Ortom who was on his way from the Makurdi Airport where he had gone to commission the maiden flight to Makurdi quickly visited Yaro’s home to assess the level of damage as well as calm frayed nerves of the youths. Speaking during the visit, the APC Chairman who thanked the Governor for coming said he was still sleeping when he suddenly started hearing noise of people within his compound. He said when he asked what was the matter, he was told that one of his security guards who tried to cut down tree branches touching high tension wire was electrocuted. “When I asked the other security man, he told me that he warned the man against going to cut the branch of tree that is touching high tension wire and that the man said he knew how he would cut it, only for him to be electrocuted. “We were in the process of sorting out things when youths came in their numbers, pulled down the gate and entered the house and destroyed it. You can all see all that were destroyed. The visibly shaken APC chairman noted that but for the coming of the Governor, the angry youths would have attacked his family. Responding, Governor Ortom condemned the destruction of Yaro’s house by youths even as he appealed to them to sheathe their swords and stop taking laws into their hands whenever anything goes wrong.   