From Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa The South-South representative at the National Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Chief David Lyon, has sued for peace over the outcome of the Bayelsa Central bye-election held on Saturday. Lyon, who commended the people for the peaceful conduct of the election, expressed satisfaction with the improvements by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in distributing sensitive and non-sensitive materials across the difficult creeks of his constituency. He called for unity among the people of the State, pointing out that elections provide the opportunity for people to freely choose their own candidate and equally afford the candidate the opportunity to canvas eligible votes in a free and fair manner. Lyon condemned situations where elections are characterised by hate campaigning, mudslinging and electoral violence which often threaten post-election peace-building and social integration. Meanwhile, the former Commissioner for Information and Orientation in Bayelsa State, Daniel Iworiso-Markson has congratulated former Governor Chief Henry Seriake Dickson on his landslide victory in the Bayelsa West senatorial election conducted over the weekend. Iworiso-Markson said Dickson’s victory was a reflection of his popularity and acceptance by the people of the zone and the State at large. In a statement in Yenagoa, the former Commissioner said the overwhelming victory of Dickson was also a show of appreciation by the people for the good work he did during his eight years in office. He said the voting margin indicated that the people did not struggle with their choice of who to represent them in the Senate and recognised him as the most qualified to speak for them. Iworiso-Markson commended the people of the zone for their peaceful conduct before, during and after the election, displaying political maturity and peace. The former Commissioner assured them that with Dickson their voices will be heard loud and clear on the floor of the Senate and the senatorial zone will be better for it. He described the transition of Dickson to the Senate as the best thing to happen to the State, saying, having served previously at the House of Representatives, it is familiar terrain for him and, therefore, will not struggle to deliver on the mandate. The ex-Commissioner also congratulated Hon Cleopas Moses, the former Chairman of the PDP in the State, for clinching the Bayelsa Central senatorial seat. He said Cleopas will be heading to the Senate with an enviable track record of service delivery, capacity and pedigree which he effectively displayed during his tenure as the State PDP boss. Iworiso-Markson commended Governor Douye Diri and his Deputy, the National and State leadership of the PDP, and other leaders, elders and stakeholders of the party for their support for Dickson and Cleopas. 