Ekiti Government has urged farmers to encourage and mobilise youths to participate in farming activities to boost food security and economic development of the state Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security Permanent Secretary, Olugbenga Odesanmi, gave the advice in Ado Ekiti, yesterday, at the inauguration of the state chapter of the Pig Farmers Association and presentation of disease containment materials to the association. The permanent secretary said the focus of the present administration was to eradicate hunger and poverty through sufficient food production, saying this could only be achieved with the involvement of all stakeholders. According to him, Ekiti could become a pig production hub in the country if farmers are united and support government’s efforts at achieving the desired goals. He said the formation of the association would attract more government’s support, but advised the farmers to make judicious use of the items given to them free of charge. Director of Veterinary Services in the ministry, Emmanuel Osayomi, commended the pig farmers for coming together, as the move would boost their ability to access more government interventions. Osayomi said the association had, already before the formal inauguration, benefitted from items disbursed by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, in collaboration with the Regional Disease surveillance Systems Enhancement (REDISSE) project to prevent spread of animal disease. He said the items distributed included disinfectants and motorised sprayers. The REDISSE officer of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Ado-Ekiti office, Tunde Ahovey, said Ekiti State was the only beneficiary of the project in the South West, Nigeria. Ahovey said the state also benefitted in the anti-rabies vaccination campaign, adding that cats and dogs in the state had been duly vaccinated while the distributed chemicals to pig farmers was to prevent outbreak and spread of African Swine Disease. He advised livestock farmers to report cases of strange ailments in their farms to Animal Health Officers nearest to them for prompt intervention. According to him, such diseases could be transmitted to human beings, if not carefully and promptly managed. 