Gov. Dapo Abiodun of Ogun says his administration will help small holder farmers and those in the agriculture value-chain businesses to boost food production and in-turn realise maximum profit. Abiodun made the assertion while  inaugurating the lock-up and open stalls and a solar powered borehole at the Olugbo Market in Odeda Local Government area. The governor, represented by Dr Adeola Odedina, the Commissioner for Agriculture, said the gesture was a drive to ensure infrastructure development at the grassroots. He said the facilities were built by the state government, in collaboration with the Federal Government and International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). Abiodun said that the facilities were meant to boost the livelihood of small holder farmers and marketers of farm produce at the local government. The governor said that markets with modern facilities were necessary for farmers to keep their produce. He listed other laudable projects completed by his administration, through the Federal Government and IFAD to include boreholes, road constructions, input distribution and linkage with off-takers. In his remarks, IFAD State Project Coordinator, Mr Samuel Adeogun, urged the farmers to ensure that the facilities and the environment were kept clean. Adeogun advised the farmers to keep their goods secured in the lock-up stores. The IFAD project coordinator urged the traders to maintain the facilities, saying that it would boost their sales and increase their profits. He commended the governor for releasing the counterpart funds, which he said, had spurred IFAD and the Federal Government to assist farmers in eight local government area of the state. Also, Alhaji Semiu Lawal, the Transaction Committee Chairman, Odeda Local Government, lauded the governor for ensuring food security in the state through his various agricultural programmes. Lawal expressed optimism that the infrastructure being inaugurated would improve productivity of farmers and encourage them to leverage on the government’s aids to improve food production. (NAN) 