Excitement has engulfed associates and supporters of winners of The Sun Awards 2019 as the celebration holds tomorrow. Already, Arise Television and Channels Television are set to broadcast the award celebration hosted by popular television presenter, Frank Edoho, tomorrow at 7pm. Twenty-eight Nigerians, whose feats in 2019 were outstanding, are being celebrated at The Sun Awards. They include Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle of Zamfara State and Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State (Man of the Year); Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State (Governor of the Year); Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State (Courage in leadership) and Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State (Political Icon). Others are: Abubakar Suleiman, MD, Sterling Bank (Banker of the year), with Entrepreneur of the Year award winners as Dr. Obiora Okonkwo, Chairman, Dome Entertainment & United Nigeria Airlines and Chief Segun Onafowokan, Chairman, Coleman Cables & Wire Limited.  Chief Fabian Nwaora, Chairman, EFAB Properties Nigeria Limited is Investor of the Year, with Mrs. Nkechi Obi, Executive Vice Chairman, Techno Oil & Gas and Mr. Mallinson Afam Ukatu, Chairman, Nipso Porcelain Limited are winners of Manufacturer of the Year award. The Hospitality person of the Year award goes to Mr. Felix Obuah, Chairman, Krisdera Hotel & Resort and Chief Jackson Abbah Agbai, Chairman, Dover Hotel. Sir Emeka Offor, Chairman, Chrome Group Limited and Mr. Femi Otedola, CEO, Zenon Petroleum & Gas Limited will receive the Humanitarian Service award. In the entertainment industry, the Nollywood Personality of the Year award winners are Patience Ozokwor and Sola Sobowale, while Damini Ebunoluwa Ogulu aka Burna Boy is the Creative person of the year. The Most Supportive First Lady award goes to Mrs. Ebelechukwu Obiano, First Lady, Anambra State, while Alhaji Ahmadu Musa Kida, President of Nigeria Basketball Federation and Chief Felix Anyansi Agwu, Chairman, Enyimba FC, Aba picked the Sports Personality of the Year award. Otunba Olusegun Runsewe, DG, National Council for Arts and Culture and Hajia Hadiza Usman, MD, NPA won the Public Service Award, while Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science & Tech, emerged winners of Outstanding Performance in Government award. For Lifetime Achievement award, the winners are Prince Arthur Eze, Chairman, Oranto Petroleum Limited; Oba Lamide Adeyemi, Alaafin of Oyo; and Alhaji Mamman Daura, former journalist and businessman. The Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief, The Sun Publishing Limited, Mr. Onuoha Ukeh, said the award celebration is coming in style and in a format that depicts its branding as “lockdown edition.” He said the celebration of The Sun Awards for 2019 is coming in December, owing to COVID-19 pandemic. According to him, the award ceremony was to hold in May, but was put off owing to lockdown in Lagos announced by the Federal Government, as a measure to contain the spread of COVID-19. Winners of the 2019 edition of The Sun Awards were named earlier in the year after extensive and engaging deliberations by the Board of Editors of The Sun. The Sun MD said the 2019 award winners are tagged “Prime Movers” as they surmounted all odds, in a challenging economy and society, to make the difference. 