From Rose Ejembi, Makurdi Air Peace on Monday, commenced flight operations into Makurdi from Lagos and Abuja, with a promise to serve Nigerians optimally. The maiden flight was witnessed by the state Governor, Samuel Ortom, Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, Sen. George Akume and many top government officials from Benue State. Speaking at the event to mark Air Peace’s maiden entry into Makurdi, at the Makurdi Airport, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Allen Onyema said the launching of the Makurdi route is in fulfilment of the company’s quest is to drastically reduce the air travel burden of Nigerians. Onyema who was represented by the Ground Operations Manager, Air Peace, Mr. Adeyemi Ayodeji stated that the flight into Makurdi was a historic feat as no airline currently operates commercial flights from Lagos or Abuja into Makurdi. “We have been earnestly looking forward to this moment and we are glad it is finally here. The Makurdi route has been on our radar for quite a while now, having signed all the MOU papers with the state government, under the vibrant leadership of Dr Samuel Ortom, whom we are abundantly grateful to. “The decision to extend our wings to Makurdi was borne out of our persisting original vision to interconnect various cities across Nigeria, thereby fostering unity and promoting impactful economic relations.” While noting that the Makurdi route had been on popular demand by Nigerians, Onyema said, “as a socially sensitive and responsive airline, we are constantly reviewing our route network vis-a-vis public needs while considering strategic ways of expanding it to provide immense value to Nigerians. “Today, as we commence flights into Makurdi from Lagos and Abuja, we are promising that this new route will be optimally serviced, and Nigerians will benefit exceedingly. Responding, Governor Ortom while commending Air Peace promised that his administration would open up the state to foreign direct investments. Some of the travellers including Kelvin Okafor and Josephine Habba who spoke to our correspondent, expressed excitement about the flight resumption saying it makes travels very easy. Okafor who boarded the flight from Lagos to Makurdi disclosed that he booked for the trip a week ago with N38,000.     