By Lukman Olabiyi, Lagos The Lagos State chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has indicated its intention to broadcast this year’s Crossover Night Service live in order to comply with COVID-19 measure put in place by the government. Lagos CAN Chairman Bishop Stephen Adegbite revealed this at a press conference, dismissing rumours that the leadership of the association is at loggerheads with the state government over the curfew imposed. The association directed all churches in the state to ensure their services on December 31 ends at 11 pm in order to allow attendees get to their homes and places of rest on or before 12 midnight when the pandemic curfew will begin. Declaring the intention of the association, Bishop Adegbite stated that the CAN leadership in the state was making arrangements for a live telecast that will begin at 11:30 pm and end at 12:30 am, with the expectation that Christians will hook up to the broadcast and pray their way into the New Year in the comfort of their homes. According to the bishop, the one-hour service will have all the heads of blocks that make up CAN and selected Christians leaders in attendance. The bishop described reports of disagreement between the government and CAN as untrue, assuring the Lagos State Government that Christians have been and would continue to be strong partners in the quest to see that the spread of COVID-19 does not happen and that it becomes a thing of the past within the shortest possible time. ‘As part of our responsibility as a law-abiding organisation and in response to the appeal made to us by the state government, we, hereby, direct that all churches should ensure that the services on the 31st of December, 2020 ends at 11 pm so as to allow attendees get to their respective homes and places of rest on or before 12:00 midnight when the curfew will start,’ Bishop Adegbite declared. ‘We are aware that some churches will have the capacity to make plans to conclude their Crossover Night prayers online, the leadership of CAN is making arrangements for a live telecast that will begin at 11:30 pm and end at 12:30 am which we except all Christians to hook up to and pray their way into the new New Year in the comfort of their homes. ‘This one-hour service will have all the heads of blocks that make up CAN and some selected Christian leaders in attendance. ‘We again want to assure the state government that Christians have been and will continue to be a strong partner in the quest to see that the spread of COVID-19 does not happen and that it becomes a thing of the past within the shortest time possible. ‘This is evident in the compliance of all the churches to the rules and regulations laid down for the reopening of churches and the strict adherence to all protocols set by the governments at all levels,’ he added. The CAN boss saluted the courage of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his team as they continue to fight hard to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, even as he gave glory to God who had ensured that ‘the apocalyptic prediction and projection of doom concerning Africa from the Western world has not become a reality and we say, by His grace, it would not happen.’ 