By Merit Ibe To support the sustainable development  goals of the Federal  Government, the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) is providing  rural banking to its customers  through partnership with Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).  Its General manager, E -commerce and Logistics,  Kunle Oladapo, dropped the hint  at the Lagos Trade Fair,  where he explained  that financial  institutions  like NIRSAL will be at the counters to attend to customers. Oladayo noted that NIPOST is developing micro finance banks so that customers can access soft loans to boost their business. He explained that the micro finance system is not limited  to PoS alone. “We have counter transactions where you can save your money and apply for soft loans. Most of the banking activities  will be carried out in our offices.” “ NIPOST is supporting  sustainable development  goals by providing  rural banking to the unbaked through partnership with Central Bank of Nigeria eg NIrSAL at our counters.” The NIPOST boss added that the spread of post offices was an added advantage  to her business  of post cash   and international financial service, saying “our counters have been automated with the latest ICT facilities, making it easy for customers to receive and transfer their money to any part of the country at the shortest possible time. He disclosed that NIPOST is leveraging on technology  to diversify and enhance her services which can be seen in different areas of its operation. “It is pertinent to inform you that  NIPOST has developed markets to move the economy  forward in line with the best practices world wide. “This can be seen in its drive of socio-economic development through  online facility for producers of made-in-Nigeria goods to send their items and deliver those dispatches from other countries  through  e-commerce.” He added that it also operates warehousing of goods in some post offices in northern part of the country. Oladapo noted that the MSMEs are taking advantage  of the service’s competitive rates to deliver goods to their customers  all over the world, noting that NIPOST e-commerce  and e-logistics  ventures are gradually  taking a centre place in business  networking. Since Nigeria is placing premium in developing SMEs, he said  when they are developed, it would create more jobs. “With the current event in the business  world,  everything is tending towards IT with a lot of emphasis on the development of MSMEs. “NIPOST recognises that fact,  we are tailoring  our efforts towards bringing up the MSMEs because that is the only way we can develop  our business too. We are also laying emphasis on ensuring quality of service too and last mile delivery. “By the time we bring in these enterprises,  we will have a lot to do and this will generate more revenue for us.  Nigerians can trust NIPOST for the best delivery of their items, as we are leveraging on IT. “We have put in place international  Postal System (IPS) and Integrated Postal System (IPMS) to improve  on our postal system. IPS has the ability  to track  your items until they get to the delivery  point. “We have also included a security  module on all our tracking platforms, so that issues of missing items don’t  come up again.” 