 Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has said technology is aiding Nigeria’s advancement in critical sectors of the economy. According to him, Nigeria recognizes the centrality of science and technology in the development process and will ensure adequate resource allocation for research and development. According to a statement by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said Buhari said this on Sunday in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Speaking at a breakfast meeting of the Commission on Science and Technology for Sustainable Development in the South (COMSATS) organized by the President of Ghana, Nana Akufo-Addo in his capacity as Chairperson, President Buhari said technology is aiding Nigeria’s advancement in critical sectors of the economy. He noted that his administration was conscious of the relevance of science and technology in national development and as such has a ministry dedicated to the sector, which is headed by a scientist. “We are concentrating on encouraging our students, at the primary and post primary levels, to love and study more of science related subjects rather than arts, political science and history,” he said on the margins of the 33rd AU Summit. Buhari acknowledged that while finding resources to fund science and technology related ventures could be a challenge, Nigeria was aware of the huge benefits and will continue to do her best to ensure adequate resource allocation for research and development. In his remarks, the Ghanaian President said as an inter-governmental organization made up of 27 member states, COMSATS was playing a leading role in cultivating an enhanced culture of scientific and technological cooperation among member states. Akufo-Addo said the body was achieving this objective through capacity building, education, research and development Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State, who is part of the Nigerian President’s entourage to Ethiopia, on his part called on the body to structure its operations in a way that creates ‘‘centres of excellence’’ in member states. Ayade said such centres will help in education, training and research for citizens of participating countries in specific fields and vocations of science and technology.