The Lagos State Government said it shut down 309 health facilities in 2019 for non-compliance to stipulated medical standards. Dr Abiola Idowu, Executive Secretary, Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency (HEFAMAA), disclosed this in a statement  in Lagos on Sunday. Idowu, however, noted that some of the health facilities had been reopened, adding that they had corrected the infractions and pledged to abide by set standards. She disclosed that the agency in January closed 20 health facilities for lack of compliance with regulatory standards. She said that the government remains committed to sustaining the fight against the engagement of unqualified personnel in health facilities. According to her, government will continue to insist on suitable environment for the dispensation of medical care for promotion and maintenance of good health. She warned that the  state government would not tolerate any form of illegal health practices and urged all health facility operators across the state to abide strictly by the standards of HEFAMAA to avoid sanction. “Health security is an integral part of public security, which is the primary duty of the government. “The State government is responsible and responsive and will not shy away in its efforts to ensure the health and well-being of the people,” she said. According to her, HEFAMAA is poised to become a health regulatory agency that will effectively promote quality health care delivery to citizens of Lagos. She said that the agency would do this by enhancing its capacity to carry out accreditation and effective quality assurance monitoring of all health facilities, increase public awareness and collaboration with critical stakeholders. Idowu advised all new operators to register with the agency, adding that existing registered operators should ensure prompt renewal of their certificate to avoid being sanctioned. She urged the public to continue supporting the government in its fight against quackery and illegal operation of health facilities by reporting people behind such acts to relevant government agencies to safeguard the health and well-being of the citizens. Idowu restated government’s commitment to the fulfillment of accessible, affordable and quality healthcare to the residents. (NAN)