Dance and let dance You own your rythm Live and let live Your life is your own Eat and let eat As long as it is your food Sleep and let sleep As long as it is with your eyes Why not Dance and let dance? What quarrel should I have with your legs? Your arms? Your waist? Why should the twist of your hips bother me so? Is it the joy I see in your eyes? The orgasmic ecstasy I see in every movement of your body? The sense that you do not care? People think you do not care Not about the rivers of blood flowing through the country The screams of the tortured The wails of those who mourn The silent cries of the voiceless The diseases that have arrived and those on the way It does not matter what they think Think and let think Care and let care Dance and let dance Azonto, Shoki, Shaku Shaku, Zanku, Gbese Whichever way your body wants to move Only you can take it there The peace we seek The sanity we yearn for The wisdom that eludes us Can only come from within From our love, passion, creativity, courage, selflessness, freedom,  gratitude and all those things that bring us alive It cannot be policed, censored or controlled That right there is the problem We leave real problems and manufacture crisis where none exists We leave the leprosy patient to chase after the sufferer of ring worm No matter how many storms rage or how hard the rain falls, the sun still shows up Dance and let dance We are not judges We are not the jury of life Dance your own dance Share your own joy or keep it to yourself Let it be your right Don’t tell others when, how, why or where to dance Dance and let dance Dance like David Dance like the devil himself Who cares? When we all get to the gates of heaven, we will be asked How many times we were kind, how many wounds we healed and how many tears we wiped away We will be asked about the screams, wails and cries and what we did to help No one will ask how many times we danced Let us think about this and prepare our answers In other words, let us mind our own business Dance and let dance See, my moves are slicker than yours!  •Bisi Adeleye-Fayemi is a gender specialist, social entrepreneur and writer. She is the founder of Abovewhispers.com, an online community for women. She can be reached at BAF@abovewhispers.com