Gyang Bere, Jos The Senator representing Plateau South in the National Assembly and Deputy Chairman, Senate Committee on Culture and Tourism, Senator Ignatius Datong Longjan, is dead. Longjan, a former Deputy Governor of Plateau state, died after a protracted illness on Monday morning in a Nizzamiye Turkish hospital. The media aide to the late Senator, Mr Wulime Goyit, who was his Chief Press Secretary while Deputy Governor, confirmed the unfortunate incident on Monday in Jos, Plateau state. Since then, sympathizers and political associates of the late Senator have been trooping to his Jos residence to condole with the family. Plateau state governor Simon Bako Lalong, in a press statement signed by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Makut Simon Macham, expressed shock over the death of Senator Longjan, who died after a protracted illness. Lalong described as devastating the death of the Senator who represented Plateau South Senatorial District at the National Assembly. Lalong said the death of the elder statesman is a huge loss to not only his family, the people of Plateau South senatorial district but the entire state because of his immense contributions to the development of the state and the country. “We have lost a man of honour and candour who in all his affairs always put the interests of Plateau state first. His humility, humanity and wealth of wisdom were always on display when he weighed on any issue that concerns people. We will surely miss him,” the statement read. The Governor recalled how the former Deputy Governor served Plateau state steadfastly and loyally from 2011 to 2015, and also played a significant role in ensuring political stability in the state all through the period of various security challenges that the state passed through. He equally recognised the contributions of the deceased on the floor of the Senate where he represented his people with passion and projected the interests of Plateau state and Nigeria in all his contributions. Lalong, while sympathizing with the immediate family of the deceased Senator, urged the people of Plateau to accept the sad event as the will of God and pray for the repose of his soul. Late Longjan was a retired career diplomat, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Deputy Chairman, Senate Committee on Culture and Tourism. He was also former Chief of Staff to the former Governor of Plateau State Jonah Jang.