Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja The presidency has described as inciting the planned protests against Service Chiefs tomorrow. The presidency also said that the protests are orchestrated by the opposition to embarrass the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. It, therefore, urged the media not to give credence to what it called “fake protests”. Recall that the federal lawmakers had asked President Buhari to appoint new Service Chiefs, as well as take other drastic measures to tackle the deteriorating security situation in the country. Buhari had earlier in the month in response to the call to sack the Service Chiefs set up a committee to periodically review the security situation in the country. The committee members are to be drawn from the executive, legislature and the ruling party. This development followed the call by Senate and House of Representatives last week for the sack of the Service Chiefs. According to a statement signed by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the presidency cautioned a section of the political class against misleading the public and inciting protests against the heads of military institutions. The statement reads thus: “This has become necessary in view of received reports that about 2,000 men and women have been hired to demonstrate against Nigeria’s Service Chiefs on Monday. “This imminent gathering is the latest in a series of demonstrations orchestrated by the opposition to embarrass the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. “As part of this overall scheme, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, with its belligerent politics, has been marching from one embassy to the other in protest against the Buhari administration and the nation’s highest court of justice, the Supreme Court. They are keen to give the impression that Nigerians are in support of them as they take to the streets, and they will go to any length to promote this false narrative. “The recent incident in Maiduguri, Borno State, where an overwhelmingly cheering crowd gathered to welcome President Buhari, while a handful were recorded booing him, is a part of this elaborate scheme. It is misleading, as some analysts have tried to do, to read this as verdict against President Buhari, who emerged winner with 94 per cent of the votes cast in the presidential election in the state in February last year. “This was clearly a hired few, but the news was promoted by the opposition who had, of course, positioned themselves to record the booing – all just to embarrass the president. “We urge the media to remain unbiased and discerning in their reporting, instead of becoming unwitting tools in the hands of the opposition. “A group of politicians and beneficiaries of the Boko Haram insurgency is right now paying for people to join their planned protest against our country’s Service Chiefs, and they will no doubt seek the media’s collaboration on this as usual. “But there is news and there is promoted content, two very different things, one of which should never make the headlines as these recent fake protests have done.”