Molly Kilete, Abuja The Nigeria Police Force Headquarters has said its operatives have arrested three more terrorists belonging to the Ansaru terror group, in continuation of its mop-up operations at Kuduru Forest, in Kaduna State. The arrested terrorists identified as Munkailu Liman Isah (aka Babban Driver), 32, Abdullahi Saminu (aka Danmunafiki), 21, and Aminu Usman, 22, according to Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, brings to eight the total number of persons so far arrested by the police. Mba said the suspects, who are currently in custody, are assisting police investigators with useful information relating to the membership spread and make-up, criminal and operational records, logistics and general modus operandi of the terror group. He said investigation conducted so far has revealed that some unscrupulous businessmen give tacit support to the terror groups by supplying them with illicit drugs and other services needed to carry out their deadly operations. Mba said in the statement: “Following sustained mop-up operations by police operatives at the operational bases of the Ansaru Terrorists’ Group in Kuduru Forest, Birnin-Gwari, three (3) more members of the Ansaru Terror Group have been arrested. They are; Munkailu Liman Isah aka Babban Driver’m’ 32yrs, Abdullahi Saminu aka Danmunafiki ‘m’ 21yrs and Aminu Usman ‘m’ 22yrs. This brings the number of persons arrested to eight (8). The suspects are already assisting police investigators with useful information relating to the membership spread and make-up, criminal/operational records, logistics and general modus operandi of the terror group. “Preliminary investigation reveals that the arrested suspects were actively involved in the recent attack and attempted kidnap of the Emir of Potiskum that resulted in the gruesome killing of the emir’s police escorts. They were also involved in several other kidnap operations and terror attacks on commuters and other innocent citizens along some major highways, especially in the North-West and North-Central states of the country. “Unfortunately, the investigation also reveals that some citizens, especially those within the business community, give tacit support to the terror groups by deliberately doing businesses with them through the supply of essential goods, drugs (licit/illicit) and other services. To this end, the IGP calls for patriotism amongst the people, noting that this is the only way the fight against the criminal elements can truly be won. “While police operatives are on the close trail of other fleeing members of the terror groups and their collaborators, the IGP has expressed immense appreciation to all and sundry, especially the good people of Birnin-Gwari and its environs for their understanding, cooperation and support which have resulted in the measure of successes recorded so far particularly in the fight against terrorism, banditry and other heinous crimes in the country.”