An Ikeja High Court yesterday  sentenced  a former part-time lecturer in the University of Lagos (Unilag), Akin Baruwa, to 21 years’ imprisonment  for raping an 18-year-old admission seeker. Baruwa was arraigned on Oct. 18, 2016. Justice Josephine Oyefeso while sentencing Baruwa, described his action as heinous and said the sentence should serve as a deterrent to others. “The offence committed against this young lady was a violation of her chastity which would have left huge emotional scars from which I pray and hope she will recover. “I cannot begin to imagine the physical and mental trauma she has had to endure from the man who she considered her father’s friend, a community leader who should have known better. This is a shame!.This is a crime that not only offends the survivor, it offends her family, it offends the society at large, it also offends God. “More painful here is that the convict gave the family the impression that he was a lecturer at Unilag, but his services were only needed on an ad-hoc basis by the university, the judge said”. She said that the convict  gave the impression that he could assist in giving his victim  university admission where as  he could not. “He used the vulnerability of this young girl to his selfish advantage. The young lady said that the encounter lasted for two to five minutes, the convict said 10 to 15 minutes. Was it worth it at the end of the day?In line with Section 258 of the Criminal Law of Lagos, 2011, Baruwa Afeez Akin ,is hereby sentenced to 21 years’ imprisonment,” she held. Earlier, Oyefeso said that the prosecution proved its case beyond reasonable doubt and that the medical evidence was consistent with the testimony of the victim. “It is interesting to note that all the graphic details he gave in court in his testimony were not contained in his statement at the Surulere Police Station. “The difference between his statement and his evidence are like night and day. DW1 (Baruwa) has a fertile imagination and is not afraid to use it. “The evidence before me overwhelmingly shows that the sexual intercourse between PW3 (complainant) and DW1 was not consensual; I so hold. The court is satisfied that the prosecution has been able to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. “I find you Baruwa Afeez Akin guilty of a one-count charge of rape contrary to Section 258(1) of the Criminal Law of Lagos, 2011, and I hereby convict you accordingly,” she said Before the sentence was passed, defence counsel, Mr H. I. Omotoba, in his allocutus (plea for mercy), prayed  the court to temper justice with mercy and impose a light sentence on Baruwa. “The convict is broken and highly remorseful of his act. The convict is a married man with children aged 12, 10, four and two  respectively. The convict also has aged parents to cater for. My lord, the convict is also a first-time offender. We urge this court to temper justice with mercy and impose a lesser punishment on the convict,” Omotoba said. In his response,  the Lagos State Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Mr Yhaqub Oshoala, expressed gratitude to the court. Oshoala asked the court to impose a stiff sentence on Baruwa to serve as a deterrent to lecturers  who prey sexually on students.