Philip Nwosu, Lagos OVH Energy Marketing, a licensee of the Oando retail brand, has restated its commitment to reshaping the retail fuel landscape. The company made this known during the launch of its new retail station in Dei-Dei, Abuja on Tuesday, February 11. This aligns with the company’s vision of enriching the customer experience at its service stations and innovation in light of changing global trends in petroleum retail service delivery. The Dei-Dei retail station is designed with a built-in capacity to dispense over 300,000 litres and 40,000 litres of Premium Motor Spirit (Petrol) and Automotive Gas Oil (Diesel), respectively per day. It has an LPG dispensing tank where customers can buy their required quantities of cooking gas. With efficient lighting and adequate security features, the station will run for 18 hours daily, dispensing petrol, diesel, kerosene, O-Gas cooking gas and Oleum range of lubricants. Other services also offered at the station include an Oleum Service Center furnished with state of the art diagnostics and repair equipment, car wash and a shopping mart. Speaking on behalf of the chief executive officer, Huub Stokman, the chief operating officer of OVH Energy Marketing, Mumuni Dagazau, said during the launch, “technology is fueling a change in global trends in petroleum retail service delivery. Technology is equally creating a quantum shift in terms of customer expectations. We have seen hyper-convenience gradually becoming the trend as consumers now crave convenience shopping. As a business focused on customer experience and satisfaction, it is only ideal that we innovate. Hence, the launch of this modern technology-driven station. “We are focused on investing in retail sites that will allow us to deliver exceptional service to our customers, while also ensuring that they have a superior experience at any of our retail sites. We have strategically positioned this station to meet the fuel needs of our ever-growing customers. We remain determined to continue to reshape the fuel retail landscape in Nigeria,” Mr Stokman added. OVH Energy continues to shape industry standards as it provides value to its customers and delivers on its value proposition as the marketer of choice providing trusted petroleum products and services.