 Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has blamed community leaders in Borno State for the terrorists attacks, saying they could not have happened without their knowledge. President Buhari stated this when he paid a sympathy visit to Maiduguri. He said: “Boko Haram cannot come up to Maiduguri or its environs without the local leadership knowing because traditionally, the local leadership is in charge of security in their own respective areas.” Buhari, according to the statement by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, assured of more proactive and decisive measures to be taken by the Federal Government to put to an end to the Boko Haram menace in the country once and for all. Buhari maintained that intelligence sharing and synergy between law enforcement agencies and the civil populace are critical towards achieving the objectives. “I assure you that improvement in security will be pursued vigorously. The military will work harder and strategise with tactics to deal with the insurgents. This is however not possible without good intelligence and cooperation with local community leaders. “Boko Haram cannot come up to Maiduguri or its environs without the local leadership knowing because traditionally, the local leadership are in charge of security in their own respective areas. “I want to call on the leadership at various levels to cooperate with law enforcement agencies and let us deny Boko Haram access to our loyal citizens,” he said. “We will do our best and I hope history will be kind to us; recall what was on the ground when we came and what will be on the ground when we leave,” he added. President Muhammadu who was at the palace of the Shehu of Borno, His Royal Highness Abubakar Ibn Umar Gabai, accompanied by the state governor, Babagana Umara Zulum, sympathised with him and other victims of the attack and prayed for the repose of the soul of the victims. In his remarks, Governor Zulum thanked the president for identifying with the state in these trying times.  He praised the efforts of the military so far, wondering why some people would be comparing the security situation now with what obtained before the Buhari administration came on board. “Roads were closed, there were sporadic bombings everywhere even within the metropolis. Close to 20 local government areas were under Boko Haram. We are surprised that there seems to be resurgence in 2019.” He tasked the military to repeat their successes of 2015 and 2017, take the battle  to the insurgents and push them to the fringes of Lake Chad. He also urged the security agencies to be patient with the civilian populace and give opportunities to the Internally Displaced Persons to access their communities in order to return to their occupations.  