Femi Folaranmi, Yengoa There were protests in Yenagoa and some parts of Bayelsa state yesterday over the Supreme Court ruling which nullified the election of APC’s Chief David Lyon and Senator Degi Biobarakuma Eremienyo as governor and deputy governor respectively. Governor Henry Seriake Dickson has however appealed to the APC to accept the Supreme Court ruling in good faith and see it as a triumph of democracy. The protesting APC members chanting ‘No Lyon, No Governor’ barricaded the major Tombia roundabout with bonfire Thursday night and continued Friday morning when they took the protests to Melford Okilo road and Imgbi road where they set bonfire along the road forcing many businesses to shut down. Some of the protesters invaded the Bayelsa State Judiciary Complex where they vandalised vehicles and offices. One of workers who identified himself as Josiah said he was lucky to escape with injuries. He narrated that the protesters stormed the complex and started beating everybody. “We were in the office when suddenly we heard noise and before we realised what was happening, protesters waving APC flag descended on staffs, vandalised offices and the two vehicles parked in the complex. We had no option but to escape. I had to jump the fence to escape” Shortly after news filtered that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Senator Douye Diri winner and issued him a certificate of return, the protests turned wild as protesters marched from Government House through Melford Okilo road destroying property.   Soldiers and armed policemen have been deployed to  major streets  to forestall a total breakdown of law and order. Also sources said the house of the new governor, Senator Douye Diri along Imgbi road was attacked by protesters. They were said to have invaded the house following the news that he had been presented with the certificate of return. In the same vein, the protesters attacked the home of member representing Yenagoa Federal Constituency, Hon Steve Azaiki at Imgbi road. Also attacked was the  Steve Azaiki Library and the state government owned Radio Bayelsa where they vandalized 15 vehicles and carted away some electronic equipment. The palatial home of Governor Dickson in Opolo area of Yenagoa was also not spared as they vandalised vehicles and any valuable in sight. The PDP secretariat in the capital city was equally set ablaze, among others.