Sokoto State Government has  utilised its N400 million counterpart funding  on routine immunisation against poliomyelitis activities in 597 health centers across the state. The state governor,  Aminu Tambuwal , stated this during the end of the year 2019 review meeting on Routine Immunisation’s Memorandum of Understanding (RIMoU) in Sokoto. He said there was a significant increase in the number of health  facilities that offered routine immunisation from 553 to 597. Achievements, according to him  were recorded with the support of Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF), Dangote Foundation, USAID and UNICEF. Tambuwal  further enumerated other achievements recorded in 2019 to include, reduction in the number of circulating vaccine derived polio virus (cVDPV). He also said that the government ensured consistent monthly meetings on polio eradication, immunisation of 55 per cent sampled children and conduct of State Data Quality Assessment in 23 local government areas of the state. The  governor pledged that the state’s health team would continue to work to intensify strategies to eradicate the occurrence of cVDPV in the coming months. He  noted the observations by various partners in the meeting and assured that “necessary adjustments” and improvements would be made to address the gaps. Chairman of the BMGF, Mr Bill Gates, who spoke via Skype,  urged the state government to follow up on local government counterpart funding. Represented by Chris Elias, Gates  urged authorities to further ensure that the transition from Routine Immunisation Memorandum of Understanding (RIMoU) to Primary Healthcare Memorandum of Understanding (PHC MoU) should surmount all difficulties earlier experienced. He called  on the state  to address human resources challenges and  advised the ministry of health to evolve multi-strategy to address problems identified during the meeting. Chairman  of Dangote Foundation, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, who also featured at the meeting via Skype,  commended the state government for its efforts to engage traditional rulers and other stakeholders in the campaign against polio. Dangote,  noted that there were some problems mitigating against the health tracking system and encouraged the state government to meet all demands. He  also recommended that the government should expand its financial monitoring framework, implement sanction on defaulters of the contributory health scheme, ensure release of additional resources and evolve a mechanism to coordinate the efforts of all stakeholders. On its part, the USAID Mission Director, Stephen Hawkins, noted  that it was already upscaling its activities in the state and would “like to see an expansion of these, as a result of its “long history of working together” with the state. Hawkins said the agency was  looking forward to working with  the state legislators and other stakeholders as it continued to further its commitment on awareness regarding behavioural change. The UNCEF Country Representative, Peter Hawkins, who also spoke via Skype from Lagos, assured that the fund was working to improve polio eradication system in the state through strengthening community engagement, which “in the moment isn’t working properly.”