 Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the retirement of Mrs. Winifred Ekanem Oyo-Ita from the Federal Civil Service with effect from Thursday, 27th February 2020. This is even as he has appointed Dr. (Mrs.) Folasade. O. Yemi-Esan as the substantive Head of the Civil Service of the Federation with effect from Friday, 28th February, 2020. Recalled President Buhari had on September 18, 2019, ordered Oyo-Ita, to proceed on an indefinite leave to allow conclusion of the investigation being carried out by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. The EFCC is investigating allegations bordering  on contract scam to the tune of N3 billion and duty tour allowance falsification and fraud case linked to Oyo-Ita. The Permanent Secretary (General Services Office), Olusegun A. Adekunle, in a statement signed on behalf of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, said in approving the retirement, the president affirmed that it would be without prejudice to the on-going investigations into certain allegations against the immediate past Head of the Civil Service of the Federation. He thanked her for the invaluable services to the nation and wished her well in all future endeavours. The statement read: “In a related development, President Muhammadu Buhari in exercise of the powers vested in him by Section 171 (2) (b); and in compliance with Sub-Sections (3) and (5) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) has approved the appointment of Dr. (Mrs.) Folasade. O. Yemi-Esan as the substantive Head of the Civil Service of the Federation with effect from Friday, 28th February, 2020. “Until her new appointment, she was the scting head of the Civil Dervice of the Federation, a position she assumed since 18th September, 2019. “Dr. (Mrs.) Yemi-Esan, a dental surgeon, was appointed a federal  permanent secretary in 2012 and has at various times, served in the office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Federal Ministries of Information, Education and Petroleum Resources. “The president charged the new head of service to bring her wealth of experience to bear in the new position so that government could deliver on the priority areas of development already outlined. He also urged her to make the stabilisation of the Federal Civil Service top most on her agenda.” 