The Chairman of the Bauchi State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Alhaji Abubakar Bauchi,  has warned engineers  against using substandard materials in the execution of projects in the state. Bauchi gave the warning while speaking with journalists after the board had a business session with the State House of Assembly on Tuesday in Bauchi. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the State House of Assembly had summoned the SUBEB’s Chairman  to explain why there were alleged substandard projects  and  the shoddy execution of some contracts awarded by the board in the state. He said  that the board appeared before the legislators to explain what led to the  the substandard projects executed in some schools in the state. Bauchi said that  the house also directed that the board should not pay the  contractors of such projects until they  had corrected all the defects associated with the contracts they  executed. The Chairman said  that the board admitted that there were irregularities in some of the projects executed in  some schools across the state. “We discovered that those projects were not properly supervised by our engineers who have the responsibility over  the projects. “That is to say that  they have not done their job diligently as expected of them. “Therefore, we are calling on the engineers to leave up to expectation or face the consequences,” he said. He urged the engineers to go back to the project sites for monitoring and proper supervision. “The board will not hesitate to punish any engineer found wanting  or jeopardizing the schools’ projects in the state,” he said. Bauchi assured the law makers  that all irregularities would be corrected  in line with the expectations  of the legislators, the government and the people of the state. The Chairman of the house committee on Education, Alhaj Mohammed Babayo, recommended that all companies and contractors that executed substandard projects to the detriment of the people of the  State should be blacklisted. Babayo called on the board to carry out an investigation  on the alleged negligence by  the engineers and that  whoever that is found wanting should  be punished to serve as a deterrent to others. He promised that the house  committee would be monitoring and evaluating through constant oversight functions to end the  irregularities in projects’ execution in the state..(NAN) 