Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has applauded Mouka Limited for the donation of 500 mattresses for the equipment of the state’s coronavirus (COVID-19) isolation centres used for the treatment of infected persons with the pandemic. Sanwo-Olu praised the frontline mattresses and beddings company, in the list of the second batch of 196 donors to the state for COVID-19 relief. He said the donations were well utilised in the enhancement of the COVID-19 isolation centres and that the assistance was necessary as it came at a crucial time when government’s attention was directed towards boosting the state’s healthcare facilities to eradicate the pandemic. The governor stated that his administration was taking a giant stride in ensuring that the pandemic is contained in Lagos and also in the treatment of infected persons, as indicated in the number of treated and discharged persons. The Chief Executive Officer of Mouka Limited, Raymond Murphy, said the company sees itself as a partner of the government during  crisis and that the wellbeing of Nigerians is at the core of its mission. He mentioned that the donation of mattresses to the isolation centres for COVID-19 relief was aimed at enhancing government’s effort in providing appropriate treatment for infected persons and also at curtailing the pandemic. Last March, a donation of another 200 mattresses was made to victims of Abule Ado gas pipeline explosion by Mouka Limited. “Mouka exists to provide comfort to Nigerians and we stay true to our mission even at this period of the COVID-19 pandemic.” The foremost manufacturer of mattresses and beddings in Nigeria also donated 200 mattresses to Ogun State government for its isolation centres. It acted likewise with 100 Klinic Hospital mattresses and cartons of insect repellents, Mouka Mozzi, to Oyo State, also for the enhancement of healthcare facilities in its isolation centres. Recently, the company collaborated with the Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy (NSP) to educate consumers on the need for quality sleep which helps to boost the immune system against infections like COVID-19. 