Wife of Akwa Ibom State governor,  Martha Udom Emmanuel, has joined other well-meaning Nigerians to campaign against rape, urging stakeholders to pay critical attention to the menace. Mrs.  Emmanuel spoke while  interacting with women and other stakeholders during a virtual campaign  tagged:  “War Against  Rape”. The campaign was  coordinated  by Rev.  Fola  Achudume, wife of the  founder of Victory  Life Bible Church and the  convener  of “Save  Her  Foundation”, a non-governmemtal organisation. While  lamenting that rape aside  creating stigma on its victims, it  had also jeopardized the future of many victims. According to her, it also  affects the mental health of many people especially women and the girl child who no longer feel secured as a result of the demonic act against  humanity. The  governor’s wife harped  on concerted efforts by religious organisations, traditional institutions, security agencies and professional  bodies to ensure prompt reports of rape cases,  adding that no rape case should be settled out of court while  culprits should be apprehended. She disclosed that spouses of governors in the country have agreed to support state government’s  campaign against, rape, sexual harassment, violence against women, defilement and other molestation against women. Rev. Victor  Adeyemi of Global Harvest International Church, who posited that the world would be a better place without rape, also canvassed the need  for  the  re-orientation of the boy-child. He also underscored the need  for men who  engage in the immoral act to re channel their  energies to  fruitful ventures. “Discipline, values and the fear of God must return to every home. Our society must also start  treating  the  female  gender rightly with  total  respect, love, care,passion  tenderness and desist from seeing them as sex toys that could  be handed  anyhow  just for pleasure”. Professor  Olubunmi Ashinmolowo of the Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta,  who spoke in the like manner, frowned at lack of prompt justice on rape cases,   describing it as a challenge  that  those in positions of authorities should  proffer solutions to without  delay. On her part, the lead  facilitator  of the online  campaign, Rev. Achudume appeals to mothers  to  be alive to their  responsibilities. She described as demonic, dehumanising and cruelty to the human race, a situation  where toddlers  and babies  apart  from women and grandmothers are being raped. The “Save Her  Foundation”  founder also saw the  need for victims to speak out, while government should  empower and protect  the  vulnerable in the society. Achudume, who wants the judicial system to be strengthened in order to  bring  rapists to book, also appealled to  stakeholders to  intensify awareness on  the  evil associated with sexual immorality and the way  out to end  the ugly trend. 