By Tony Ogaga Peter Oboh, former Commonwealth and WBA Inter-Continental light heavyweight champion has congratulated his sister, Mabel Oboh and her running mate, Dr. Reuben A. Edokpayi on their emergence as African Democratic Congress (ADC) governorship candidates in the forth coming gubernatorial election in Edo State holding September 18. In a statement Oboh said: “The time has come for women to take the reins of nation building in our country and Edo Sate has already keyed into that. ADC has taken a big step in the right direction by giving a platform for a woman to lead. Mabel Oboh is a hardworking and dedicated woman. She has always shown qualities of leadership. I am not surprised that ADC picked her alongside a vibrant running mate, Dr. Edokpayi. It is time we give women a chance to chart a course for Nigeria. “Take a look at the way the coronavirus pandemic has been managed globally. New Zealand has managed the pandemic most successfully so much so that it has become a model for other countries as recommended by WHO and for this reasons, its citizens are happier as its economy is beginning to open up and the reason for this is not far fetched, New Zealand is governed by a woman! “The ADC ticket is a big win for my sister and the Nigerian woman and it is an opportunity for the womenfolk to prove that leadership in the hands of women in Nigeria will be transformational. She is well traveled, has worked with multi nationals and the United Nations where she has proved her myrtle and going into the Edo 2020 elections, I see her coming out victorious.” Peter Oboh is a Nigerian born British former professional boxer who competed from 1993 to 2004. He held the British, Commonwealth and WBA Inter-Continental light heavyweight titles between 2002 and 2004. Recall that in a dramatic move, the ADC had substituted its governorship candidate for the September 19, 2020 Governorship election in Edo state following the withdrawal of Dr. Benjamin Akhigbe on July 13. Princess Mabel Oboh a popular Nollywood movie producer/Broadcasters became the choice following her endorsement by Edo State youths, women and prominent Edo professionals and leaders of thought. In a statement by ADC, the party stated that the choice of Oboh gained approval of party leaders because of her pedigree as a creative artist and ADC’s resolve to promote women in line with its constitution. Meanwhile, on her part, the Nollywood star has vowed to extensively mobilize Edo people to vote out what she described as the rancorous PDP and APC for peace to rein in Edo state. 