Priscilla Ediare, Ado-Ekiti The Ekiti State Government on Thursday commenced enforcement of safety protocols in the large markets in Ado-Ekiti with a warning to traders not to display goods on walkways, road medians and other unauthorized places. The Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, who paid an unscheduled visit to Erekesan and Bisi Markets advised traders to abide by COVID-19 protocols including regular washing of hands, use of face masks, sanitisers and avoiding overcrowding. Egbeyemi during the visit said Governor Kayode Fayemi is concerned about the safety of traders and their customers in the markets hence the need for strict enforcement of rules following the decision to open the markets for owners of lock-up shops. According to a statement by his Special Assistant (Media), Odunayo Ogunmola, Egbeyemi was joined during the inspection by the General Manager, Ekiti State Traffic Management Agency (EKSTMA), Chief Femi Olanrewaju; Commandant, Ekiti State Peace Corps, Mr. Dele Owoju and other government functionaries. Egbeyemi who took time to move to various sections of the two markets where he educated traders and their customers on COVID-19 safety protocols also deplored displaying of wares on drainages by some shop owners. The Deputy Governor emphasized that Coronavirus is real and kills without minding class and age noting that markets have been identified as places where it could spread hence the need for compliance following their reopening. Egbeyemi warned that any trader who displays wares in unauthorized places would not only have his goods seized but would also be prosecuted in the court in line with extant laws. While noting that government was not interested in denying them their daily bread, the Deputy Governor said only compliance with rules would keep the markets open warning traders against throwing caution to the wind which could lead to the shutting down of the markets again. According to him, inspection of the markets would now be a regular occurrence as government was poised to defeat COVID-19 and ensure safety of people who come to buy and sell there. Egbeyemi further stressed that display of goods beyond the stalls would impede movement urging those without shops to move to Awedele, Adere and Agric Olope Markets which are alternative places for traders to do their businesses. He appealed to market women to always prevail on traders to abide by COVID-19 rules adding that parking goods on the road and lack of social distancing in the market would only endanger their lives and that of their customers. Olanrewaju said officers of the agency have been mobilised to enforce traffic rules in the market vicinity and would not allow encroachment of roads by display of goods. The EKSTMA boss said both the Governor and the Deputy Governor loved the traders and would not do anything that would jeopardise their interests hence their heeding the appeals to reopen the markets. Olanrewaju said government had spent a lot on the Comprehensive Health Centre located within the precincts of the Bisi Market but warned against displaying of wares on the access road to the health facility. He disclosed that EKSTMA would continue to collaborate with other security agencies to maintain law and order and ensure security of lives and property at the markets. Olanrewaju urged traders and customers to ensure that they put on their face masks whenever they are inside the markets. Some of the traders who expressed joy that Government reopened the major markets in Ado-Ekiti, promised to always adhere to government protocols on market activities. They, however, appealed to Government to help them channelize the blocked drainage in the markets adding that the blockage often caused erosion whenever it rains. 