Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja The Metropolitan Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, Ignatius Kaigama, has described recent  revelations about  pervasive  corruption in government  sectors as “terribly worrisome and unfortunate.” Kaigama stated this in a homily at a Mass held at Saint Agnes Parish, Wuye, Abuja, yesterday. His condemnation came against the backdrop of allegations of massive fraud by officials of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) and North East Development Commission (NEDC) which has forced the National Assembly to commence audit of the establishments. “The  recent  revelations  about  pervasive  corruption  in some  government  sectors  are  terribly  worrisome  and  unfortunate. The  cost  of governance  and  expenditures  on  partisan  political  strategies  to  capture  power  are scandalous  in the  face  of  a  pandemic  of  poverty,” Kaigama said. Kaigama, however, said all hope was not lost given the  stories of brave and honest Nigerians, who in their endeavours, were doing the country proud. He cited “the  recent appointment  of  Prof. Charles  Egbu  as  Vice  Chancellor  of  a  UK  University;  Ikenna Nweke  in  Japan who returned  a  missing  wallet  with  huge  sums  of  money  to  the  police and  also  turned  down  an offer  of  a  percentage  of  the  money  and  the  heroism  of Tolulope  Arotile,  a  Nigeria  Air  force  first ever  female  combat  helicopter  pilot  who died  and  was  buried  with  full  military  honours. Similarly,  the  Holy  Father,  Pope Francis,   conferred  on  Frs.  Aloysius  Udoh,   Anthony  Onyeso  and   Festus Nwadike,  the  title  Monsignor,  an  honorary  title  usually  bestowed  on  priests who  have  served  the  Church  and  society  faithfully. Kaigama noted that in  Africa,  the  craving  for  political  power  among  politicians  and  even  some  religious leaders  and  the  manipulations  to  achieve  it  was  mind -boggling. “In  the  process,  there are threats to  life, unjust  judicial  pronouncements,  buying  votes  or  electoral  and security officials, promoting  the  dubious  interests of  godfathers,  dealing  unfairly with  political  opponents  and  when  power  is  captured there is  the  accumulation  of  so  much wealth at  the expense  of  the  ordinary people,” Kaigama said. The cleric who drew his message from the biblical readings in the Mass likened the Kingdom  of  God to a   treasure  worth  giving  up  everything for  in order  to  be a part  of  it. He, therefore, urged Nigerians to be ready to make the requisite sacrifice to  build  a  country where peace, justice  and  holiness reigns so that they could inherit  the  Kingdom  of  God. Meanwhile, Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has sent Freedom of Information (FoI) requests to Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Lawan and Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, to urgently publish all reports of completed public hearings and corruption probes by the National Assembly since the return of democracy in 1999. The FoI request dated July 25  and signed by deputy director, Kolawole Oluwadare,  urged the leadership of the National Assembly to disclose the number and details of public hearings and corruption probes  that have resulted in any indictment of suspects, and to name such suspects. It also asked the National Assembly to “sponsor a resolution to stop lawmakers from directly getting involved in the execution of projects by ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) to ensure the proper and effective exercise of oversight functions, including investigations of corruption allegations, such as those involving NDDC and NSITF. 