‘Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger.’ Psalm 8:2 From the mouth of a naughty little boy with the most admirable persuasive skills From a beloved child whose mother is teaching a valuable lesson in consequences From one who we all recognise in every innocent little face around us Two simple words of the most profound wisdom Calm down Yes, Mummy is fed up and angry She has told him not to do it, whatever it is, over and over Like most children his age Words are meant for entry into the left ear and exit from the right So Mummy decides to drive home her message with some permanence Somewhere in the centre of his brain before it finds the door out again The game is up. Mummy is mad as hell, no surprise there, all mothers can relate A child who has no fear of authority becomes an adult who is fearless in all the wrong ways Something those struggling to parent in this day and age have to contend with ‘Old School’ Mummy is not about to be found wanting Poor boy was afraid of getting the beating of his little life I got mine when I was nine years old Back in the day, there were no threats of being beaten There was no room for negotiation You just got a sound beating With no notice, no theatrics, no videos, no opportunity to plead your case If you were asked what you did wrong, you got beaten if you knew why If you did not know what you did wrong, your beating was doubled If you cried you got beaten, if you didn’t it was tripled This is 2020, so the little chap was able to change the narrative with two words Calm down We are all angry over one thing or the other There is something that ails us, bothers us, makes us cry or keeps us awake at night Now from the mouth of a terrified little boy we can see our way through Calm down Tomorrow will be better For the hard of hearing who need to hear, here is an opportunity Calm down When you do, you will hear the rumblings of the bellies of the hungry You will hear the groans of the sick who have no means of a cure You will hear the painful cries of the unclad women wailing for justice You might even hear the whimpers of the millions of children wandering the streets with no hope Calm down Two words that should flash like neon lights For those living life on the fast lane on real and imaginary superhighways My mansion is bigger than yours My bag is more expensive than yours My wedding cost more than hers My wristwatch can buy a house My car says I am not your mate My jewelry is real not fake Calm down Did you hear? What did he say? Say that again, You don’t mean it! Really? Where? When? How? Calm down Mind your own business For those who are not content with their blessings And are blind to the full cup so heavy it has to be held with both hands Yet ignore words of restraint to chase after promises of a bigger cup And now find themselves bereft of both cup and contents Calm down Little Master ‘Calm Down’ also has a demonstration of ‘Calm down’. He lies down to show Mummy how she should ‘Calm down’ Let us follow his example We can Calm Down by lying down We can Calm Down by laying down We can hold our anger and sharp tongues We can still our fingers from typing mischief We can have a humble spirit that leads us to the realisation that it is not always about us We can stop bearing false witness We can desist from false prophecies and ignore false prophets We can find stillness in helping others We can shift our anger to purpose Calm down Now the smart fellow is an ambassador He will go around preaching a message of peace and love The Governor wants to meet him The little ambassador’s words have resonated with him In this season when we are all fighting for our lives one way or the other When we do not know who wakes up before dawn comes Or who departs before sunset Calm down Maybe I should have said that to my mother all those years ago The days of the slippers, belts and custom-made sticks Only problem is I would not have been here to write this! Calm down. Calm down. Calm down.  •Bisi Adeleye-Fayemi is a gender specialist, social entrepreneur and writer. She is the founder of Abovewhispers.com, an online community for women. She is the First Lady of Ekiti State and can be reached at BAF@abovewhispers.com 