Layi Olanrewaju, Ilorin Government officials in Kwara who have had contact with the late Chief of Staff (CoS), Aminu Logun, in the last two weeks have proceeded on self-isolation. A statement by the Commissioner for Communication, Mrs. Henrietta Afolabi-Oshatimehin, in Ilorin yesterday also said their samples were taken for COVID-19 test. “Cabinet members, personal staff of the late Chief of Staff and some medical personnel who have recently had varying degrees of contact with the late technocrat have now proceeded on self-isolation,” she said. Afolabi-Oshatimehin said the government had also suspended physical meetings of any kind on official matters until further notice. She directed that virtual platforms should be used for such engagements in order to limit physical contacts and emulate Gov. Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq. “It is important to note that His Excellency, the Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq last had any physical contact with the late Chief of Staff on April 6 during the launch of the conditional cash transfer for the elderly. “The governor’s subsequent meetings with the late CoS had all been virtual. “Similarly, the State Executive Council meetings and most official engagements have consistently been held through virtual platforms in line with the COVID-19 protocols. Flowing from this, government officials are again urged to avoid physical meetings at all cost as well as keep to safety measures,” the commissioner said. Meanwhile, the remains of Logun was yesterday buried in his GRA home on Ijumu Road Ilorin in line with the COVID-19 protocols and guidelines. Supervised by the burial team of the COVID-19 Technical committee in accordance with extant protocols for Muslims, the janazah prayer was led by the Chief Imam of Ilorin. In a brief sermon, an Islamic scholar, Dr Abubakar Imam Aliagan, described the late Chief of Staff as a silent achiever, a silent  philanthropist and promoter of unity within the family. “Alhaji Aminu Adisa Logun since we know him was a complete gentleman, a lover of humanity. I can recall, may be the last time he came to the family mosque, he made some corrections to the mosque by himself to improve the structure,” the islamic scholar said. 