Mr Salami Bolaji, Ondo State Commissioner of Police, has warned that any politician with security aides or escort would not be allowed into the venues of the parties’ primaries holding this week. The police commissioner gave the warning in a statement issued by the command’s Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Tee-Leo Ikoro, on Sunday in Akure. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) will hold their governorship primaries in the state on Monday and Wednesday, respectively. The commissioner said that the warning became imperative to avoid confrontation with men and officers of the command. “To all participants in the electoral process, I will advise that those coming with their security aides and escort should know that nobody will be allowed to come into the voting centre with any security aide throughout the duration of the elections,” he said. Bolaji explained that police under his supervision would maintain absolute neutrality in the discharge of their functions in favour of all the political party primaries holding in the state according to their schedules. “The responsibility of credible elections lies in the hands of all politicians and their political parties to maintain outright decency in their conduct by not allowing or giving anyone the reason to suggest that they are brewers of election malpractices. “I will not be the kind of Commissioner of Police that will watch thugs or any electoral disorder in the very Command I supervises its policing architecture,” he said. According to him, politics should be seen as a channel to serve humanity. The commissioner, therefore, cautioned his men to demonstrate true professionalism in their conduct and attitude throughout the duration of the primaries. He promised to provide the state with a policing strategy that would ensure Ondo State maintained the lowest crime rate in the country. Salami said this could easily be achieved when all residents put the interest of Ondo State above personal considerations.(NAN) 