Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Chairman/CEO, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, has applauded the excellent behaviour of Lt. Victor Agunbiade of the US Navy, for being a good ambassador of Nigeria with his exemplary conduct and outstanding character. This is the second time Agunbiade will be making Nigeria proud with his exemplary character as he was named the Navy’s 2018 Officer Recruiter of the Year, alongside 17 others, and honoured at the annual Recruiter of the Year ceremony in Washington D.C. In a congratulatory message,  she said Agunbiade’s excellent and outstanding behaviour  earned him a  medal of commendation for his meritorious service from the US Navy. In a statement signed by Head, Media and Public Relations Unit NIDCOM, Abdur-Rahman Balogun, Dabiri-Erewa said: “It is most commendable that Mr Agunbiade, working with the US Navy, effectively managed its largest cash disbursing office handling $45 million (N17billion) in cash transaction. “It was learnt that the US Navy said you supervised its fund which accounted for 70 per cent of its overseas disbursing volume without any hitch”, NIDCOM boss noted. According to Dabiri- Erewa, Agunbiade earned the honour while serving as cash Disbursing Officer at the Navy’s Camp Lemonnier in Djibouti, between October, 2019, and July 2020. She added that Agunbiade also managed 100 per cent accountability of $23 million (N8.7 billion) across six rigorous inspections and independent audits with zero discrepancies. “With this exceptional financial integrity, good accountability,  excellent behaviour and dedication to duty, you have reflected great credit upon yourself  and upheld the highest traditions of the United States naval service as well as your country Nigeria”, she said. Dabiri-Erewa noted that  Agunbiade  reflects a positive image for Nigeria and Nigerians in the Diaspora, adding “We are truly proud of you and urge you to continue to extol the virtues and strength of the Nigerian heritage of excellence, honesty, integrity and honour. Your shinning beacon serves as inspiration to the youth of Nigeria”, she said. 