The Federation of International Football Associations (FIFA) has confirmed the match schedule for the 2022 FiFA World Cup in Qatar. A statement on the world football governing body’s website said that the host, Qatar would kick off the 2022 tournament at Al Bayt Stadium. ”Al Bayt Stadium, a 60,000-capacity arena that takes its name and shape from the traditional tents used by nomadic peoples in the Gulf region, will be the stage for hosts Qatar to kick off the tournament on Monday, Nov. 21, 2022 at 13:00 local time (11:00 CET). ”The local kick-off times for group matches have been set for 13:00, 16:00, 19:00 and 22:00, with the simultaneous kick-offs for the last round of group games and knockout-stage timings being 18:00 and 22:00. ”Khalifa International Stadium will be the setting for the play-off for third place on Dec. 17. ”The final will kick off one day later at 18:00 at Lusail Stadium in front of an 80,000 crowd. ”With the aim of providing all teams with optimal rest between their matches, the group stage will last 12 days and, with four matches per day, it promises a full and exciting schedule for fans,” the statement read. It added that tournament’s compact nature, with no air travel needed to move between the venues, would allow organisers, for the first time, to optimise specific match demands for the benefit and comfort of fans, teams and media. ”This will be achieved through the assignment of the group fixtures for each matchday to a stadium and kick-off time only after the final draw, currently planned for after the March 2022 international match calendar qualifying window. ”Once the pairings are known, the possibility will be discussed of providing a more beneficial kick-off time for audiences at home, or indeed for fans in Qatar with regard to the stadium allocation. ”That additional flexibility is possible without affecting any technical aspects since all stadiums are located within a compact radius and the climate is perfect at that time of year in Qatar, whether it is an early or a late kick-off. ”On top of that, this will potentially give fans the opportunity to attend more than one match a day during the group stage,” the statement read. (NAN) 