Gunmen invaded Agbudu community in Kogi-Koton-Karfe Local Government area, killing 14 persons and injuring six in the early hours of yesterday. The state Police Commissioner, Ede Ayuba, said 13 of the slain victims were from same family. “This morning around 2 am, my Area Commander called me to report that he received information that there was an attack on Agbudu community. “I called the SSA on Security of the Local Government in Koton-Karfe and I said that before I get there, he should mobilise his vigilante men to assist the police – the DPO and the Area Commander in the area – for them to assess the place and see what assistance they could render.” Ayuba said the vigilance men and his men left immediately and by the time they got there,  the hoodlums  had carried out their operation and left. The CP said he later went to the scene of crime and took part in collection of the bodies. “Yes, 14 people were killed and about six others were fatally injured. The saddening thing is that out of the 14 dead bodies that were brought out, 13 were from one family. “In that family, it is only one person that survived. His uncle, his mother, his uncle’s wife, his younger brother, his senior brother’s wife, his wife and all his children were killed,” he said. He said the police had carried out some preliminary investigations and discovered that there had been long-standing communal feud in the community. “What I think is, there has been a long-standing communal problem around that area which we are not clearly seeing, but we know that it would not be far from it. “Presently investigation is in progress. The only person that survived the attack is already with us and he is helping us, the chief of that place is also helping us and some other spirited individuals. “The Ohimege of Koton-Karfe, Alhaji Abdulrazaq Isa-Koto, is also helping us, the local government and all the personnel are helping us. “We are sure, God helping us, we are going to get to the root of all these things that are happening. “In the interim, I want to give the assurance that we are not going to relent in our efforts. We will make sure we get to the root of anything that is behind the killings,” he said. 