Following weekend’s  violent clashes at the Oba of Benin’s palace which culminated in gunshots and injury, ADC gubernatorial candidate and only female contesting the Edo 2020 elections, Mabel Oboh, alongside her running mate, Reuben Edokpayi have vowed to put an end to political rivalry and ‘war’ in the state if elected governor on September. In a statement, Oboh who is poised to kick-off her political campaign decried the clash that occurred between PDP and APC supporters when PDP paid a courtesy visit to the Oba of Benin. “The clash which involved gunshots between the supporters of the APC and PDP at the palace of the Oba of Benin is utterly appalling. This is a taboo! It is disrespectful as it shows utter disregard for the monarchy and the peaceful and rich tradition of the Edo people. It has never happened before and it reveals that there is a total break down in morality in Edo state.” Lamenting, Oboh carpeted political leaders for exploiting and sacrificing Edo youths for their selfish political interests rather than empowering them: “The youths are angry because they are hungry, jobless and in need of good leadership. But rather than guiding them to greener pastures, our children have been abandoned and neglected and are being pushed to engage in violence by the political class for a pittance! This is unacceptable! The perpetrators should ask themselves questions, are they in this for personal gains, power or for the interest of the people?” Calling on the Oba to forgive the perpetrators, Oboh continued: “I urge the Oba to forgive because he is a father. This incident has obviously given a true insight to the Oba on the level of the crisis in his land and obviously he needs the assistance of a mother to help bring his children together at the round table in order to restore peace and order, respect and love for all.” Calling on the people of Edo State to vote ADC she continued: “We must bury our differences, unite and change the Edo story together. Just as it takes a mother to run a home, so too it also will take a mother to run the affairs of Edo State in order to guarantee the restoration of law and order. The right leadership with the ADC DNA is what the Edo people need in order to change the Edo narrative and only a woman can produce such leadership and so I am calling on the entire people of Edo State to vote ADC on September 18,” Oboh concluded. 