Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Former All Progressives Congress (APC) Deputy National Publicity Secretary Timi Frank has dismissed calls by the APC for the investigation of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, ex-Senate President Bukola Saraki, ex-Speaker of the House of Representatives Yakubu Dogara, Senator Dino Melaye and himself. Following the arrest of accused cybercriminal and social media influencer Hushpuppi, the APC had called for the probe of some People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chieftains, including Atiku, Saraki, Dogara, Melaye and Frank over suspected dealings with the suspect, having been photographed with him. However, reacting to the demand of probe by APC, Frank in a statement issued in Abuja, said the photographs under reference were taken at a public function and therefore cannot be proved that any of them had business dealings with the suspect. ‘That Hushpuppi was privileged to be in a function where he took pictures with Atiku Abubakar, Bukola Saraki, Yakubu Dogara, Dino Melaye and my humble self, does not prove that any of us had business dealings of any kind with him,’ Frank stated. ‘Hushpuppi is a Nigerian that was in a function with Nigerians and like any other Nigerian, asked for photo sections with these leaders of Nigeria which they obliged. I understand that this is beyond the comprehension of the APC’s regime, especially the Head of State, Muhammadu Buhari because Nigerians loathe them and run away from them whenever they come across them in foreign countries, hence they are trying to rope us into imaginary business dealings with Hushpuppi. ‘Does the APC think that the USA and its security agencies, like the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), make arrests before investigation? Does the APC government not realise that investigation was carried out before Hushpuppi was arrested? ‘America is not Nigeria where the APC’s militant wing, alias the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and other security agencies, go about harassing innocent citizens even before any investigation is carried out. ‘We know that the APC’s government and its sycophantic town criers are very good at weaving lies, propaganda, stealing and embezzling of public funds, supporting Boko Haram insurgents, bandits and protecting APC political Hushpuppis like the cabals in the Villa who before 2015 were in debt and extreme poverty, but have within the last five years of Buhari’s regime become multimillionaires. ‘They even acquired Etisalat, now known as 9Mobile, Keystone Bank, etc. Some of these APC political hushpuppies even had bullion vans in their houses during the 2019 presidential election campaigns. ‘We have seen an APC governor open a bank in his ‘Babariga’ where he openly pocketed huge amounts of dollars without personal shame or repercussions from this government. ‘We have seen billions of dollars fritted away at the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and other government agencies under the APC regime.
“Even the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, last week, called for the sack of the head of the EFCC over corruption allegations. The EFCC boss, Ibrahim Magu, is presently being quizzed by a presidential panel constituted by the regime. ‘What can be more embarrassing to a country than for the head of its anti-graft crusade to be indicted for corruption? APC and this regime should bury their head in shame as this is the most corrupt democratic administration in the history of our beloved country. ‘If Hushpuppi had been extradited to Nigeria, this corrupt and clueless Buhari-led APC regime would have set him free. The FBI does not need anybody to urge them to act or investigate any individual if they have evidence against anybody they will do the needful as they are professionals in their job. ‘Finally, Buhari and the APC should stop wasting time sponsoring unnecessary protests, rather they should focus on delivering the fake promises they made to Nigerians during their electioneering campaigns and to think of how to repay all the debts they have accumulated through incessant foreign and local loans.’ 