Lukman Olabiyi Federal Government (FG) yesterday arraigned Dr. Adepoju Anuoluwapo and her cosmetic surgery firm, Med Contour Ltd at the Federal High Court, Lagos for allegedly obstructing its investigation into circumstances that led to her client’s death. The defendants were dragged before the court by FG through the
Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC). Dr. Anuoluwapo and her cosmetic surgery firm, Med Contour Ltd were docked on five-count charge but pleaded not guilty to the charge. The FCCPC is investigating allegations that the defendants’ services resulted in the death of one Mrs Nneka Onwuzuligbo. It is also investigating complaints by three consumers’ Marlene Adejumo Oluwakemi, Taiwo Omolola Temilade and Vivian Onwuzuligbo that Dr Anuoluwapo’s body enhancement business is unsafe.
It filed a five-count charge marked FHC/L/125c/2020 alleging that Anuoluwapo shunned its investigation into the case and declined to produce documents required by the Commission. The charge, prosecuted by FCCPC Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Babatunde Irukera, accused Anuoluwapo of failure “or refusal to appear before the FCCPC in compliance with a summons as required by law. “Failure to produce documents in compliance with the Commission’s Notice of Investigation as required by law” and “Impeding, preventing or obstructing the Commission’s investigation.” Mr Irukera, said the incidents happened between April 15 and May 4, 2020, at No. 11a Ladi Alakija Street, Lekki Phase 1, Lagos. He alleged that Adepoju acted contrary to sections 33(3)(a) and 113(4)(a) of the FCCPC Act 2018 and was liable to be punished under sections 33(3) and 113(1) of the same Act, among others. A six-paragraph affidavit of completion of investigation attached to the charge, said the commission received complaints that the surgeon’s services “are unsafe for consumers,” and that she made “false, misleading and deceptive representation in relation to the marketing of their services.” It said, “In particular, the above-mentioned Vivian Onwuzuligbo, a member of the Mrs Nnneka Miriam Barbara Onwuzuligbo (now deceased) alleged that the deceased died as a result of the failed defendants’ cosmetic surgery and she is privy to the events that led to the demise of the deceased.” Justice Mohammed Liman admitted her to bail on self-recognisance in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.
He adjourned till July 9 for the commencement of trial. Earlier in the proceeding, the judge dismissed a preliminary objection by the defence lawyer, Marian Jones, challenging the validity of the charges and the court’s jurisdiction to entertain them. Justice Liman upheld Irukera’s argument that the court’s jurisdiction enables it to hear the charge. 