Priscilla Ediare, Ado-Ekiti Ekiti State Government, on Thursday officially expanded its isolation centre to 150 bed space, following the delivery of 100 hospital beds and other medical equipment from the Nigeria Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID) in support of the fight against Coronavirus in the state. The expansion, according to Governor Kayode Fayemi, has positioned the state to tackle possible rise in cases. The governor, who was represented by the Commissioner for Health and Human Services, Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, at the event that took place at the Oba Adejugbe General Hospital, Ado-Ekiti, said the facility would boost the state’s capacity for curtailing the spread of the pandemic. Other items donated include 12 LG electron, autoclave, blood warmer, deflagrator, kidney dish, monitor, oxygen cylinder, oxygen concentrator, oxygen regulators. The governor who assured that the facilities would be judiciously utilized, solicited more supports from “corporate organisations and good spirited individuals in the fight against the dreadful virus” He disclosed that a total 16 COVID-19 patients out of the 20 recorded cases had been discharged, after they had recovered and their test turned negative twice, leaving the state with only two active cases while the two deaths recorded were imported cases from Lagos and Kwara states. The governor said: “As a responsive and responsible government, we have taken precautionary measures geared toward the prevention of community spread of Coronavirus in Ekiti. “The support to our isolation and treatment centre will strengthen not only our fight against the COVID-19, but will definitely boost the healthcare services in our dear State. Our health facility is better prepared, even beyond this perilous time of COVID-19. On behalf of the good people of Ekiti State and government, I sincerely thank CACOVID for the gesture.” Earlier, the representative of CACOVID, Mr Kayode Adejuyigbe of Access Bank said the gesture was part of the collective responsibility in the fight against COVID-19 in the State. Adejuyigbe who noted that survival was of necessity at this period, said the equipment were donated to support the treatment of confirmed and suspected patients in Ekiti. In attendance at the brief event were the Ewi of Ado -Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adeyemo Adejugbe, Head of Service, Mrs Peju Babafemi, State Coordinator of COVID-19 Taskforce, Prof Bolaji Aluko, Special Adviser on Public Health, Dr Jimlas Ogunsakin and other top government officials. 