Ndubuisi  Orji, Abuja and Judex Okoro, Calabar Crisis is brewing in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as members of the National Working Committee (NWC) are allegedly divided over the  validation  of wards and local government areas’  congresses  held recently in some  states. Daily Sun learnt that  some members of the NWC are up in arms against the National Chairman, Uche Secondus,  for allegedly going  against  the decision of the national  exco to suspend  action on issues  relating to wards and local government areas  congresses in states where the exercises were  considered controversial. Sources told Daily Sun that in the aftermath of the ward and local government areas congresses, members of the NWC had resolved  that issues relating to the congresses  in Ekiti,  Cross River, Kano  and other states where there were contentions should be kept in abeyance. However,  the PDP leadership  recently  validated the wards and local government congresses held by one of the factions of the opposition party in  Ekiti State. While in Cross River,  tension  has been mounting after  the State Working Committee (SWC) spurned  the directive of the national leadership to inaugurate new wards and local  government officials allegedly  elected at factional congresses. The development has sparked a legal dispute. A party source said some  NWC members were angry  that the party chairman authorised the recognition of some of the factions in the state against a collective decision that matters  relating to ward and local government areas congresses should be kept on hold. “All is not well in the party right now. Our National Chairman is the only one that can explain the  current issues being raised concerning the inauguration of the ward excos because we sat as a body and resolved that the exercise should be put on hold in some places, such as Ekiti, Kano, Cross Rivers and others where we had issues to be resolved, but to the surprise of every one, the press statement on the decision was never made public. “The non-release of the statement at the appropriate time gave room for manipulations. For instance, in Ekiti State where we have some issues to resolve, two parallel excos were inaugurated; one on Thursday and the second one on Friday, we even learnt they went to court over the matter under this lockdown,” the source  stated. PDP  spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, told  Daily Sun  that there was no division  saying he was not aware  of any decision by the NWC to keep the validation of congresses in Ekiti and Cross River on hold. Meanwhile, the Cross River chapter of the party has hailed the NWC for extending the tenure of the State Executive Committee. The NWC had last week extended the tenure of 23 state working committees including the Ntufam Edim Inok-led Cross River Executive Committee by  three months. The State Executive Committee is, however, to function as caretaker committee pending the state congress where a new state executive would be elected. Hailing the national leadership shortly after the committee’s meeting with Governor Ben Ayade in Calabar, the state’s spokesman,  Mr. Egbung Odama Egbung,  said such a decision had gone a long way to re-uniting members and then laid to rest the speculation making the rounds that the party was factionalised. 