Priscilla Ediare, Ado-Ekiti Olujoda area of Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State capital, was on Thursday night thrown into confusion when the body of a seven-year-old girl, Olagoke Morire, was found lifeless inside a vehicle belonging to a neighbour in their compound. Saturday Sun gathered that Morire and his twin sister, Olagoke Mokore were with their cousin in their apartment before they went out to buy biscuits. The mother of the deceased Kehinde Ajayi said her daughter got missing around 1:15pm after Mokore left her in the compound to get her money she forgot in the room. Ajayi said the deceased’s twin sister and her neighbours raised the alarm when she could not be found and the situation prompted them to conduct a search for the girl around the compound, which proved abortive until 8pm when her corpse was found inside a co-tenant’s vehicle that was parked in their compound. “When we woke up in the morning I took care of my children as usual. They are twins. I gave them money to buy biscuits and left them in the house with my cousin. “Suddenly, I received a distress call from one of my neighbours around 3pm that Morire was missing and that they had searched everywhere but they couldn’t find her. I quickly left what I was doing and rushed home. We searched everywhere to look for her yet we didn’t find her. We reported the incident to Ologede Police Division and we were told to wait for 24hrs before they could take any action. “It was later, around 8:00 pm that someone discovered her corpse inside a vehicle parked in our compound with her body peeled off,” she added. When contacted, the Ekiti State Police Public Relation Officer, Abutu Sunday, confirmed the incident, describing it as unfortunate. “It was true that a teenager was declared missing and the parents reported the incident in our division at Ologede. So, all efforts to recover the little girl turned out unsuccessful until 8pm. She was found lifeless in one of the car parked within their compound.” He said the corpse of the deceased had been deposited at the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital’s morgue, Ado-Ekiti, adding that autopsy would be conducted to unravel the cause of the her death. 