Chinwendu Obienyi
Nigerian financial service technology company OPay has joined Nigerians and the Government in rolling out a series of anti-pandemic and relief efforts by donating face masks in its bid to support the Lagos State Government’s recently launched initiative #MaskUpLagos, to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria. This was even as the company promised to donate another 200,000 facemasks to needed entities in the coming weeks after making a donation of 40,000 medical face masks.
Speaking during the presentation of the facemasks in Lagos recently, the Honourable Commissioner of Transport, Dr Fedrick Oladehinde, received the facemasks on behalf of the Lagos State Government.
“On behalf of the Lagos State Governor Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, we would like to thank OPay for their donation. It is coming at the right time – we are about to open up Lagos and the facemask is very vital in protecting people from COVID-19″, he said.
Dr Oladehinde added, “By working together, we can do great things. I’m glad the private sector is joining forces with Lagos State to fight the pandemic and together we will win”.
Also speaking, Director of Partnerships at OPay, Oladipo Omogbenigun says “The fight against the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria should be a collective effort. That is why OPay is proudly supporting the Lagos State Government’s initiatives. We hope to continue in a similar fashion”.
OPay Nigeria’s Country Manager, Iniabasi Akpan, says “OPay is firmly committed to Nigeria, and we are conscious of the fact that our growth and success is intertwined with that of Nigerians. As a leading mobile money platform in Nigeria, we will mobilize our resources to help in overcoming the COVID-19 virus in Nigeria and the threat it poses to the health and economic wellbeing of Nigerians who are well known as a resilient people.”
The donation is just one of OPay’s list of Corporate Social Responsibility efforts happening in the coming weeks. OPay will utilize its international network, its finance, and its digital and agent platforms, to contribute to the anti-pandemic efforts.
In other efforts to support the fight against the spread of COVID-19, OPay has dedicated a section of their app to deliver facts, safety and prevention tips to its 5 million-plus registered app users in addition to real-time updates.