Noah Ebije, Kaduna Kaduna State is treating 72 active COVID-19 patients, out of which are 65 Almajiris who were recently returned from Kano, and two policemen, a statement from Sir Kashim Ibrahim House has confirmed. The statement signed on Tuesday by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication, Mr Muyiwa Adekeye indicated that seven other cases out of the 72 that are on admission ‘’are persons with travel history outside Kaduna State or their contact.’’ Adekeye, who was giving an update of Monday’s State Standing Committee on COVID-19 meeting, said two more patients have been discharged. ‘’Since the index case was reported on 28 March 2020, the state has discharged eight patients and has recorded one fatality who died before his positive test result was received,’’ the State spokesman summarised. He further said that ‘’overall, 81 cases have been recorded in the state but the active cases are now 72.’’ Adekeye warned of the dangers of community transmission, advising citizens to report anyone who has recently arrived from another State ‘’As it continues its effort to prevent community transmission, the State Standing Committee on COVID-19  appeals to citizens to report any person who they know has sneaked into the state. Such persons are violating the state’s Quarantine Orders as well as the nationwide prohibition of interstate travel by the Federal Government.” The statement pointed out that ‘’beyond illegal conduct, such persons are risking the health and lives of Kaduna State residents, by recklessly spreading the virus across state lines.’’ The Special Adviser urged residents ‘’to be uncompromising in exposing and reporting these potential spreaders of disease. ‘’They should not be allowed to spread sickness and make nonsense of the sacrifices the people of Kaduna State are making in enduring the tough but necessary measures announced to protect them.” Adekeye said that Standing Committee is aware of documented instances of police and paramilitary personnel that have been involved in illegal interstate travel, adding that ‘’this is unfortunat‘’. The Special Adviser further said that the fact that two policemen are among the 72 persons being treating for COVID-19 ‘’should serve to remind everyone that nobody is immune from the virus,’’ the statement added. ‘’Citizens who suspect that they have been exposed to COVID-19  should act responsibly, avoid infecting others, contact health officials and isolate themselves until the authorities come to see them. Such persons are urged to readily volunteer all relevant information on their health, travel history and contacts,’’ he added. The statement reminded the public of the importance of hand-washing, personal hygiene, social distancing and the avoidance of large gatherings in helping protect all residents from COVID-19. ‘’Residents should wear face masks when leaving their homes and should wash their hands when they return home,’’ Adekeye advised. According to him, ‘’keeping safe from this pandemic is the personal responsibility of every citizen. All of us must take steps to protect ourselves and our households from COVID-19.’’ 