Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Prominent Bayelsa political leaders and elders have called on the people of Sagbama and Ekeremor to give the requisite support to the former Governor òf Bayelsa State, Hon Henry Seriake Dickson in the bid for the Bayelsa West Senatorial slot in the National Assembly. The elders in a resolution at the end of their meeting declared that Dickson is the best candidate for the Senatorial slot and should be supported by all to fill the vacant position. They stressed that Bayelsa West and the Ijaw nation require a person with a vast knowledge of the workings of the National Assembly like Dickson who served the area effectively as a member of the House of Representatives. The political leaders noted that there shouldn’t have been any need for a contest for the vacant position if not for the need for election in a democracy to fill the position going by the former Governor’s antecedents, achievements and demonstrated commitment to the development of the Ijaw nation. The resolution signed by a former commissioner and former Chairman Governing Council, Federal Polytechnic, Ekowe, Hon Etiffa Bekeakpo and former Senior Special Assistant to President Jonathan on Household and Domestic Matters, Chief Sylbriks Obiriki said the political leaders after extensive deliberations decided to go for the ex-Governor because of his track record as a politician who displayed incontrovertible commitment to the defence and promotion the interest of the Ijaw nation. They described Dickson as an asset who is available to be utilized to contribute to the pressing need to defend the burning issues of interest to Bayelsa, the Ijaw nation and the Niger Delta. According to them Dickson has the experience and proven capacity to defend the interest of his people, the state, the Ijaw nation, the Niger Delta and indeed the country. The statement reads in part “The senate is the highest law making body in Nigeria therefore you need a man like Hon Henry Dickson who understands the politics of the country who has a vast knowledge in law making having served as a member of the House of Representatives. He is more qualified than any other politician from the Bayelsa west senatorial district with his capacity for networking and vast contacts. “He has made his marks in governance and has proved to be a tested leader with incontrovertible interest in the development of our society. “He has the experience and the capacity to articulate the issues affecting Bayelsa, the Ijaw nation the Niger Delta and Nigeria. He has done it before and is trusted to do it again. “We call on all to mobilize support to achieve the desire of the Bayelsa West people for effective representation at the Senate. 