The latest single “Ileke” by the Nigerian US-based music duo, Roze has hit number one spot on the Nigeria iTunes top songs beating the likes of Simi’s “Duduke”, Adekunle Gold’s “Something Different” and even other international stars like Drake, Adele, Wiz Khalifa among others. Roze, made up of two brothers, Row and Zuwa Agbonayinma dropped the single and video “Ileke” on all digital platforms on Tuesday, May 5, 2020 and it has since caught fire for its melodic rhythm, powerful vocals and enthralling beat. The title of the song “Ileke” simply means the African waist beads but beyond that, the duo explores the function of the ornament in relation to a woman’s bum and how it defines and accentuates it during dance. After practically sending the social media into a meltdown with rendition of cover of Rema’s latest single “Beamer” in April, Row and Zuwa definitely are writing their own story of greatness with “Ileke,” shooting themselves to the top of the reef in less than 5 days of the release of the song. The top ten songs on the Nigeria iTunes are Roze’s Ileke at number one, Simi’s Duduke at number two, followed by EESKAY’s Sanitize, Seun Moon’s Ileke, Ladipoe and Simi’s Know You, Natalie Taylor’s Surrender, Hanno’s No Doubt (Featuring Realzy), Sokid’s Away, Adekunle Gold’s Something Different and Mayorkun’ Of Lagos. Ileke was produced by top producer, Mekoyo and the video was put together by Clarence Peters. When the duo did a cover of Mavin’s Rema’s “Beamer” back in April the ovation for them was so loud even Don Jazzy himself had to commend them for the effort. Some people who saw the cover on Instablog9ja begged the Mavin’s boss to organise a remix of the song, collaborated between Rema and Roze. The music duo, born Eghosa Rodney Agbonayinma (ROW) and Osazuwa Michael Agbonayinma (ZUWA) popularly known as Roze are children of politician and music lover, Hon Ehiozuwa Johnson Agbonayinma. They were born in Houston, Texas, January 11, 1998 and July 30, 1999 respectively. Their other songs include like Too Much, All These Things, The Whole Night, Good things, Impressions, Stranded and Patience. Doze is signed to U&I Music owned by their father 