Molly Kilete, Abuja The Federal Government has approved the reorganisation of the Nigeria Police Force with the creation of eight new departments to address the challenges posed by the dynamics of crimes in the country. The government has also approved the decentralisation of the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID), with the establishment of two additional offices in Enugu and Gombe States. The eight new departments are Finance and Administration, Operations, Department of Logistics and Supply, Force Criminal Investigations Department (FCID), Department of Training and Development, Department of Research and Planning, Department of Information and Communication Technology (ICT), and Force Intelligence Department. Under the new arrangement, the Force Intelligence Bureau(FIB), which hitherto was a section under the FCIID, is now a full-fledged Department of the Force and to be headed by a Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG). Also, each of the newly created department would be headed by a Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG). Force public relations officer Frank Mba made this known in a statement issued in Abuja. Mba also said five new Police Zonal Command Headquarters have been created in addition to the already existing 12 Zonal Command Headquarters, bringing the to 17 Zonal Command Headquarters in the country. He listed the five new Zonal Commands to include Akure(Ondo/Ekiti Commands), Awka (Enugu, Anambra, Ebonyi), Yenagoa (Bayelsa, Rivers Commands), Maiduguri (Yobe, Borno Commands) and Katsina (Katsina, Kaduna Commands). The statement reads: ‘As part of efforts at addressing threats posed by the dynamics of crimes in the country and the full implementation of the Federal Government Community Policing initiative, the Federal Government of Nigeria has approved the reorganisation of the Nigeria Police Force. This reorganization includes full autonomy of the Force Intelligence Bureau (FIB), creation of five additional Police Zonal Command Headquarters and the decentralisation of the Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigations Department (FCIID). ‘By this re-organisation, the FIB, which was previously a section under the FCIID, is now a full-fledged Department of the Force to be headed by a Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG). With this new arrangement, the Nigeria Police Force now has eight (8) Departments and each is headed by a DIG. ‘The Departments are: ‘The Federal Government also approved the further decentralisation of the FCID with the establishment of two additional offices in Enugu and Gombe States. While the office in Enugu is expected to take care of investigations of major crimes emanating from the South-East and South-South geo-political zones, the office in Gombe will take care of the North-East geo-political zone. Each of these Annexes, in addition to the pre-existing ones in Lagos and Kaduna States, shall be headed by an Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG) who shall report to the DIG in-charge of the FCID, Force Headquarters, Abuja. ‘In a similar vein, five (5) new Police Zonal Command Headquarters have been created for the Nigeria Police Force in addition to the hitherto existing twelve (12) Zonal Command Headquarters. This makes a total of seventeen (17) Zonal Command Headquarters in the country. The five (5) new Zonal Commands are Akure (Ondo/Ekiti Commands), Awka (Enugu, Anambra, Ebonyi), Yenagoa (Bayelsa, Rivers Commands), Maiduguri (Yobe, Borno Commands) and Katsina (Katsina, Kaduna Commands). ‘The Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, NPM, mni while thanking the President, His Excellency, Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR who is also the Chairman of the Nigeria Police Council, expresses confidence that the reorganisation will further bring policing closer to the people, improve the response time of the Police to incidents across the country and generally promote efficiency in service delivery.’ 