Ndubuisi  Orji,  Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday,  demanded the immediate  prosecution  of former  Director General of the National Emergency  Management Agency (NEMA), Yunusa  Maihaja over alleged  N33 billion  fraud  in the agency. The PDP  in a statement by its  National Publicity Secretary,  Kola Ologbondiyan,  charged  Vice  President  Yemi  Osinbajo to come clean  on the NEMA  scandal. The opposition  party  recalled  that the House of Representatives had exposed  alleged  fraud  in NEMA in relation  to the procurement of grains under the emergency intervention on food security in the North East.. It noted  that the former  NEMA  boss  under  whose watch the alleged  fraud  occurred  should not be allowed  to leave  office  without  being  investigated and prosecuted. “Our party believes that the failure to prosecute the indicted former NEMA Director General as a ploy to shield very top officials in the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration, who are alleged to be involved in the series of scam in NEMA, while the masses, for whom the fund was meant to serve, continue to suffer neglect and untold hardships. “The PDP insists that the sacking of Engr. Maihaja should not be used as an excuse to foreclose an investigation into the huge fraud in NEMA under Vice President Osinbajo as Chairman of Governing Board.” “The vice president had failed to provide cogent response to the report of the House of Representatives on the N33 billion NEMA fraud  in addition to allegations that the N5.8 billion was withdrawn from the national coffers, while he was acting President, without legislative consent and expended without recourse to extant due process, procurement and contract rules. “Indeed, the failure of the Buhari Presidency to prosecute Maihaja, despite his indictment by the House of Representatives, had raised serious issues of alleged complicity in high places, for which Nigerians expect Prof. Osinbajo, as Chairman of Governing Board of the agency, to come clean. “It is even more saddening that the looted fund is part of the money set aside for emergency response such as provision of palliatives and other essentials for the poor masses to mitigate the hardships that would be occasioned by emergencies such as the COVID-19 pandemic.” The party  charged the Economic  and Financial  Crimes  Commission (EFCC)  to use “the report of the House of Representatives as a working document and immediately invite Maihaja for questioning. 