Edo State Government has screened over 75,640 and tested over 520 residents across its 18 local government areas as part of ramped up efforts to contain the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Commissioner for Health, Patrick Okundia, who disclosed this to journalists in Benin, said the ongoing screening and testing is a strategy adopted by the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led government to get a clearer picture of the spread of the virus in order to enhance efforts at fighting against the deadly disease. Okundia, who urged residents to get screened in any of the facility or mobile-based screening centres across the state, noted that the improved efforts at screening and testing was responsible for the steady increase in numbers of confirmed cases. He further appealed to citizens to support the state government’s efforts towards curtailing the spread of coronavirus by complying with all guidelines, including the stay-at-home and social distancing directives. “Edo state Government has continued to take serious steps to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, as the health and wellbeing of residents remains a top priority for this government. As part of this ramped up measures, we have embarked on massive screening and testing of residents to get a clearer picture of the spread of the virus in order to enhance our efforts and strategies at containing the pandemic. “We have set up over 18 screening centres across the state, with five additional ones at borders with Delta, Ondo and Kogi states and another eight mobile screening centres moving around wards in local governments to screen and collect samples that fit the case definition for testing. “With the model, the state government screens at least 10,000 people daily and collects at least 20 samples for testing. “So far, we have screened over 76,640 and tested over 520 persons in the state and have continued to scale up as we aggressively push to screen a minimum of 500,000 people and test 15,000 individuals in the next few weeks. “The government advises that everyone should get screened at the numerous screening centres across the state to complement government’s efforts to contain the pandemic. “You are also charged to avoid large gatherings and comply with all government directives to keep you safe and healthy. Stay-at-home and observe all precautionary measures against the spread of the disease, including regular hand washing with soap under running water and the use alcohol-based hand sanitisers. Cover your mouth and nose properly when sneezing and/or coughing,” the commissioner said. 