Oluseye Ojo  Ibadan Commissioner for Environment and Natural Resources in Oyo State, Mr. Kehinde Ayoola, died on Thursday morning after he battled for his life for two weeks as a result of yet-to-be-disclosed illness. He was said to have breathed his last on Thursday morning at a private hospital in Iyaganku area of Ibadan, the state capital. The Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, as well as Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism in the state, Dr. Wasiu Olatunbosun, confirmed the demise of Ayoola. Ayoola, who served as Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly during the administration of a former governor of the state, the late Alhaji Lam Adesina, in 1999. Then, he represented Oyo East/Oyo West State Constituency between 1999 and 2003 on the platform of Alliance for Democracy (AD). As gathered, he fell ill about two weeks ago and drove himself to the hospital for medical attention. He was said to have been attended to and was asked to rest very well. Ayoola was the Director-General of Seyi Makinde Campaign Organisation in 2015 when Governor Seyi Makinde contested governorship poll of the state on the platform of Social Democratic Party (SDP). But Makinde did not win the election then. Prior to the 2019 governorship poll in the state, he also served as the Deputy Director-General of the Omituntun Campaign Organisation that ushered in the present administration of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) under the leadership of Governor Makinde. According information obtained on his Facebook wall, Ayoola, until his death was a member of Association for Environmental Impact Assessment of Nigeria (AEIAN). Hr was born on January 14th at Oyo town in Oyo State. He atended Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife and he qualified in Animal Science and Environmental Management and Control. He was married to Olukemi Ayoola, an Associate Professor of Agronomy and the union was blessed with two sons. He was also a Pastor at New Covenant Church, Apata, Ibadan. At the time of filing this report, details about his death were still sketchy. But some people have been asking questions on whether he suffered from any terminal illness and what could have caused his sudden death. 