Ndubuisi Orji and Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Barring any last minute change, the House of Representatives will undertake a clause-by-clause  consideration  of the controversial  Control  of Infectious  Diseases  Bill, 2020 at the Committee of the Whole  level today. This is coming  as anxiety  continues  to mount  over the bill  which seeks  to repeal  the Quarantine  Act. Daily Sun learnt that some lawmakers are opposed  to the bill even as a cross section of Nigerians have  faulted  the decision  of the House  to pass  the proposed  legislation  without  subjecting  it to public  hearing. They have also been allegations  that the bill is a plagiarised version  of an existing  law in Singapore. The House had resolved   to give the bill sponsored  by the speaker,  Femi  Gbajabiamila, Paschal  Obi and Tanko  Sununu,  who is chairmen House Committees  on Health  Institutions and Health  Services expedited  passage. The bill was introduced  last  Tuesday and passed  the first  and second  reading the same  day. However, the consideration  of the proposed  legislation at the Committee of the Whole, which is the last  stage before  its eventual  passage into law was deferred till today, owing  to protests by some lawmakers who complained  that they were not served copies  of the bill. The proposed bill seeks to empower the Nigeria Centre  for Disease  Control (NCDC) to order  for vaccination  in any part  of the country where  there is an outbreak of infectious diseases. It also empowers the agency  or the police  to arrest defaulters  without  a warrant even as it empowers  the Minister of Health  to declare  any place, including  private  property,  as Isolation Centres. Daily  Sun gathered  that ahead  of today’s plenary,  proponents  and opponents  of the bill  have been meeting and mobilising  support for the position. A  source  told  Daily Sun that the leadership of the House is likely  to call for an executive  session over the controversial  bill  before  the commencement  of plenary.. No fewer than 41 Civil  Society  Organisations (CSOs)  in a statement yesterday faulted the bill as giving  discretionary  powers  to the Director  General  of the NCDC and a threat  to the rights of Nigerians. The CSO coalition consists of Centre For Liberty, Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD),  Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), Yiaga Africa. “We are alarmed by the House of Representatives’ attempt to give accelerated passage to such a critical legislation like the Control of Infectious Diseases Bill without consultation and inputs from relevant stakeholders and the public. We understand that the House is resolute to pass the bill and it has fixed Tuesday, May 5, for presentation of the report of the Committee of the Whole and clause by clause voting on the bill without public hearing or consultation with relevant stakeholders. This runs contrary to the principles of effective and inclusive lawmaking,” the coalition said. “The Control of Infectious Diseases Bill vests overbearing discretionary powers on the Director General of the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) while making no provision for reviewing and controlling the exercise of such powers. The Bill empowers the NCDC to restrict fundamental rights and freedoms at will, and abuse constitutionally established institutions and processes, without any form of accountability. For instance, Section 10 (3) gives the Director General express powers to use force to enter any premises without warrant; Section 19 confers the Director General with powers to prohibit or restrict meetings, gatherings and public entertainments;in addition, Section 47(1) confers discretionary powers on the Director General to order any person to undergo vaccination or other prophylaxis. All these powers can be abused for political and economic reasons if not properly checked.” However,  the chairman,  House  Committee on Media  and Public  Affairs, Benjamin Kalu told Daily Sun that the controversy trailing  the bill was unnecessary. He noted  that the interest of the House is to block  existing  lacuna  in the Quarantine  Act. 