Chiamaka Ajeamo Following its commitment to provide access to quality healthcare services, AXA Mansard Insurance plc, has launched free primary healthcare drugs and mental health support for all its customers across the country.
The company which disclosed this in a statement added that recently, it also collaborated with one of its subsidiaries; AXA Mansard Health Limited, to unveil other services which are free for all customers within the AXA Mansard Group.
These services are the telemedicine, primary care drugs and the mental health support. According to AXA, the telemedicine service allows customers to virtually visit the hospital and see a doctor from the comfort of their homes through their phones, laptops or tablets devices.
Also, through the service, customers are able to access a platform that connects them with licensed doctors who can consult, diagnose, prescribe medication and make recommendations on medical conditions and treatments.
The firm further stated that the primary care drugs follows any consultation via the telemedicine service, customers are eligible to collect primary care medication (subject to limits) at any of their partner pharmacy, thereby ensuring they are not burdened with the financial requirements of accessing good primary care drugs.
The mental health support on the other hand, permits customers to receive psychological assessment and support via psychological assistance program over the phone. This is in a bid to address the stress generated throughout the country during this time of crisis, it noted.
Speaking on this development, the Chief Client Officer, AXA Mansard, Rashidat Adebisi, said: “We have introduced these services in a bid to ensure our customers are better equipped to sail through the challenges of the current crisis.
“We are aware that this crisis is generating stress throughout the country, that is why we are striving to ensure we relieve the stress on our customers across all our entities in any way we can.
“Since the launch of the telemedicine service, we have received great feedback and hence, our decision to open it to all AXA Mansard customers as well as introduce mental health support to help those that may require it to navigate this challenging period. This mental health support is available through AXA Mansard Health Limited”, Adebisi said.
Thereafter, she assured that the company will continue to create sustainable and innovative solutions to cater for its customers’ healthcare needs at every point in time.
AXA Mansard Insurance plc offers life and non-life insurance products and services to individuals and institutions across Nigeria whilst also offering asset/investment management services, health insurance solutions and pension fund administration through its three subsidiaries – AXA Mansard Investments Limited, AXA Mansard Health Limited and AXA Mansard Pensions Limited respectively.