As Nigeria marks 60 years of nationhood, the Eze Ndigbo Mekong River Asia, HRH Eze (Amb) Jerome Uzochukwu Ezeneche has recommended restructuring whereby the federating units will take control of their resources as panacea to problem of insecurity, tribalism  and nepotism facing the nation. According to the royal father who is king of six nations in Asia, inability of the various ethnic groups in the country to speak one language is hampering development Citing example of countries who have adopted concept of one language one nation, Ezeneche said former USSR federated and Russia today is one of the strongest economy on earth while other smaller federating units are also developing at their own pace. While charging president Muhammadu Buhari to tackle insecurity and rampant killing of Nigerians by bandits, Ezeneche urges him to unite Nigeria by promoting policies that would favour Nigerians with regardless to tribes and tongues. On the increase on pump price of petrol and electricity tariff, Ezeneche said this is not perculier to Nigeria alone. He said with the devastating  impacts of COVID-19 on the global economy, such development is expected. On how to solve the problems, Ezeneche call on the Federal Government to partner with Private investors in the construction of smart modern refinery. He said if 100 million Nigerians could donate 100 dollars each to a special refinery fund, the money which could amount to 10 billion US dollars could be enough to build refinery in the country. He also suggested that Federal Government could give license to viable states to build refinery which in the long run would end importation of the productsabroad. On the impact of Nigeria’s poor economy on Nigerians in the Diaspora, Ezeneche said they spent fortunes trying to sustain less privileged back home in the country. While congratulating Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State on his  victory at the poll, Ezeneche urges him to continue to promote good governance in the state.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 