Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State governor,  Nyesom Wike, has challenged members of the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) to always hold public office holders accountable to the people. Governor Wike gave the charge when the national leadership of the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) paid  him a courtesy visit at Government House,  Port Harcourt, yesterday. The governor noted that in the past,  the Nigerian press was a strong voice and conscience of the society, but wondered what has whittled down their powers. He said: “What I have seen of you is that you praise us and give us award because of relationship or friendship. That’s not the way it should be. Challenge us; the people in authority and we will sit up to our responsibilities. We will have no choice than to perform and serve the people as it should be. “My support for you has to do with the fact that you are supposed to tell the truth of what is happening in Nigeria. There was a time you were exposing the ills of society. If not for you, certain things will not be known. Assume your role, grow strong again and speak out” The governor stated that Nigeria is in a difficult stage in its history and NGE could not afford to shy away from performing its duties without fear or favour. He urged them to discharge their function and be sure that they are  doing what is right always. “If when I castigated the operations of SARS you added your voice, who knows what good that would have been achieved. “Now, look at what has happened. There was EndSARS protest across the country. Nobody knows how the youths were able to organise themselves without a leader. Up until now, intelligence can’t even know how they did it and who’s behind them. Without good intelligence, how can Nigeria even defeat Boko Haram?” , he queried. In his speech, National President of the Guild, Mustapha Isha, said Governor Wike has remained consistent in his support to the guild. “You are the only government that has sponsored our annual conference back to back. Even if  we have a new leadership, that will not affect the friendship we share with you. Anytime I come to Port Harcourt,  there is always a new project on-going. Flyovers are being constructed,  existing roads are being  expanded, and new roads being built.” Members of the guild later accompanied Governor Wike on project tour of the Rebisi Flyover, Real Madrid Football Academy and the Mother and Child Specialist Hospital. 