Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan The Caretaker Chairman of Iganna Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of Oyo State, Mr Olayiwola Adeleke, and his driver, who were kidnapped last Sunday night, October 25th have regained their freedom, after five days in kidnappers’ den. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Olugbenga Fadeyi, a Superintendent of Police (SP), who confirmed the development, said the duo were released on Friday night and they have been reunited with their families. The council boss and his driver were abducted along the Okeho-Ado Awaye Road, on their way to Ibadan, so that Adeleke could attend a meeting with Governor Seyi Makinde of the state, which was scheduled to hold with traditional rulers, chairman of local governments and LCDAs and clerics at the House of Chiefs, Parliament Building, Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan, on Monday. It was gathered that many residents of Oke-Ogun have always passed through Ado-Awaye, Maya, Lanlate, and Eruwa to connect Ibadan, instead of the Iseyin-Ibadan Road that is currently under construction. But it could not be verified at the time of filing this report, whether a ransom was paid to secure their release from the kidnappers, but the abductors were said to have contacted the family on Monday morning and demanded a joint ransom of N200 million. Meanwhile, names of successful applicants for the Oyo State Security Network, codenamed Amotekun Corps, have been released and process for documentation for the candidates has been slated to begin on Tuesday, November 3, this year. According to the Commandant of the Amotekun Corps in the state, Col. Olayinka Olayanju (retd), in a statement made available to journalists, said all candidates should check their names at their various local government headquarters or on the job portal of the state. He stated further that: “Successful candidates are to report at the Emmanuel Alayande College of Education, Oyo on Tuesday, November 3, from 9:00 a.m. for documentation, while the duration of training will be two weeks. Candidates are to come with two pairs of blue short knickers, white vest and canvass, as well as plastic buckets, cup, plate, spoon and broom. “Those who can read and write should come with their writing materials. Those whose names are not on the list should not bother to come for the exercise.” 