Worried by the high level of cultism in primary, secondary and Tertiary institution across the country, The Ogun State Government has promised to fight the menace and make all the schools, including tertiary Institutions a peaceful place of learning for the students. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Technical Education, Prof. Joseph Odemuyiwa made this known while decorating him as Commander, Corp Marshal by the National School Crime Prevention Corps (NSCPC), at his Office, Oke-Mosan Abeokuta. Prof. Odemuyiwa, in a statement signed by the Press Officer, Bureau of Technical Education, Mrs. Busayo Malaolu, said the National School Crime Prevention Corps has done the necessary things in combating crime and cultism at earlier stage in the schools, so as to prevent adult cultism, hooliganism and hoodlums in the society as well as the country at large. Odemuyiwa commended the State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun for not allowing touts and hooliganism in the State, noting that no government ever succeeded in the arrays of touts and hooliganism. He emphasized the need for school children to be properly taken care of by the guidance and teachers within and outside the school premises at all time, so as to avoid any act of crimes. While promising to relay the message of the NSCPC to the Governor for a financial back-up for their well-being, Odemuyiwa noted that they have been doing voluntary services without compensations and it was time to get compensation for the job well done. He gave kudos to the organisation for supporting the government in making peaceful resolution at all schools in the State, saying that their organisation would be reckoned with at all time and be proud in due course. In his response, the Commander General, Commandant, Folayinka Ige, said that the organisation has seized a lot of dangerous weapons from the students during school period, saying that they would not relent in the rehabilitation exercise to the wards and its usefulness to the school. He then urged the parents, guidances to always admonish their wards and feed them with words of God in ensuring that their wards become better persons in the society. Ige revealed that the level of crime in schools awake their interest in re-shaping the mindset of the students to become useful for positive greatness in their communities. 