Christian Agadibe The musical landscape of Africa is agog. And one of the artistes responsible for this is reggae cum dancehall star, Nnaemeka Okorie popularly known as Patoranking, whose hit song, Abule is ruling the airwaves across the continent. To Patoranking, Abule, which is from his new album, Three, was inspired by a party he recently held in the ghetto. In this exclusive interview, the Ebonyi State-born singer reveals how he navigated the lockdown resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, while also affirming that challenges were his springboards to success and fame.  How have you been coping since the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown? I have been observing social distancing, washing and sanitizing my hands, masking up and protecting my Abule (ghetto). I believe everything will get better soon. But right now, I am doing my best to be my brother’s keeper. What should your fans expect from you, any exciting project coming up? I just dropped a new album titled, ‘Three’ and it features Sauti Sol, Tiwa Savage, Flavour and King Promise from Ghana. What inspired the new album? It’s my ghetto; the amazing parties that used to take place there. I have sung many songs of my time in the ghetto, but I wrote Abule about a particular party in the ghetto. Do you think you would make impact with your new song? Apart from telling the story of the party in my ghetto, it was also a great avenue for me to push the slogan #ProtectYourAbule in conjunction with federal and state protocols, to kick against COVID-19 pandemic by masking up. What is the positive context or message in your music? I do preach love in my songs. I sing about love a lot and how important it is.  What are the challenges of a popular artiste like you? I don’t see them as challenges anymore. They are springboards to success and fame. Which artiste would you say influenced your career? I grew up listening to Bob Marley… He has the greatest influence on my career. How would you describe your type of music? My style of music has always been reggae/dancehall with a touch of galala. How do you handle your admirers? I always treat them with gratitude, appreciation and respect. Aside showbiz, what other things do you do? I love to play football when I am not doing music. What kind of emotion does musical expression evoke on your fans? I inspire my fans with dance mood, love, pure positive vibes, excitement and fun. 