Chinelo Obogo Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc, (NAHCO), has been contracted to handle Qatar Airways for five years and a new contract with Azman Air to handle its international route in addition to the previously held for the airline’s domestic operations. NAHCO’s Group Executive Director, Business Development and Commercial, Saheed Lasisi, while announcing the retention of the handling contract of Qatar Airways expressed excitement on the feat, describing it as a boost for both companies. He said,  ‘’With the new contract, which runs for five years and coupled with the additional frequencies of Qatar flights to Nigeria and Ghana, we are glad to go even further to provide the top -notch services for which we are known and have offered the airline for the past nine years. Also, the recent addition of more Ground Support Equipment, GSE, especially the brand-new dollies, Qatar Airways and our other clients will experience the best available handling service.” Speaking also on Azman, which has recently been granted approval to commence international operations with its newly acquired A340-600 series, the NAHCO Executive Director said NAHCO is well positioned and excited to help Azman Air succeed as it goes international. In another development, the Group Managing Director of NAHCO, Olatokunbo Fagbemi, has expressed NAHCO’s readiness to work with the National Trade Facilitation Committee of the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment to improve the nation’s capacity for export. She made the statement during a visit of the Committee on an inspection tour of the Company’s facility. The committee, led by its Chairman, who is also a Director at the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Mr. Aliyu Abubakar, had earlier been briefed by NAHCO’S team on the Company’s activities and processes. NAHCO’s Cargo Services Manager, Mr. Femi Fasuyi had taken the committee members which included representatives of NAFDAC, NITDA, NEPC, NDLEA, FRSC, FAAN and of course the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment through a power point presentation on all that needed to be known about the Company, NAHCO. 