Felix Ikem, Nsukka Dr. Okwudili Nwosu, Acting Provost of The College of Education Nsukka, Enugu State has warned newly admitted students to shun cultism, examination malpractice and other related vices as any student caught will be expelled. Nwosu gave the warning in Nsukka on Saturday during the college’s 13th matriculation ceremony, he said that the college has zero tolerance for sorting, exam malpractice, cultism, indecent dressings, riot and violence. “This college has zero tolerance for sorting of lectures after exam either in cash or in kind as any student caught will be expelled and the lecturer involved will be sanctioned. “The institution also has zero tolerance for cultism, exam malpractice, indecent dressings, students riot and violence. “If you are a member of any cult group before gaining admission, denounce it immediately else if you are caught you will be expelled and handed over to police for prosecution. “Your admission into this college is not a guarantee that you will graduate here only your serious attention, good performance to your studies and good behaviour will guarantee you graduation,” he said. He said that, all the courses offered in the college were fully accredited and the college had qualified lecturers as well as required equipment to give students quality education. “The college has manpower and equipment to give you the best in your various course of study. “We operate open door policy, so feel free to discuss your academic problems with your head of department or lecturers so that they will help you to find solutions to you problems. “The college has e-library, reliable cybercafe and internet facility that will help you in your reading and research, the school exam results are no longer pasted In the campus but on internet, ” he said. The Provost urged the new students to always read the college handbook that would provide them with the vital information they needed about the college. He also said that one of the challenge facing the college is funding, noting that as private college the institution does not receive subvention either from federal or state government. “I appeal to those of you with the the wherewithal to support the growth and development of our College in whatever ways you can,” he said. In a interview with one of the matriculated student, Chibuike Eze of English Department, he promised to obey and abide by the rules and regulations of the college, he added that “with the good enabling study environment I must make my parents proud by graduating with flying colours.” Highlight of the ceremony was taken of matriculation vow by newly admitted students. Sunday Sun gathered that about 200 students participated in the matriculation ceremony. 