Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure Ondo State governor, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu has given seven days ultimatum to all hoodlums who took advantage of the EndSARS protest to perpetrate trouble in the state to surrender all arms or ammunition in their custody to the government or face the wrath of the law. The seven days period of grace, according to the governor commences yesterday. Governor Akeredolu specifically directed that all such arms and ammunition should be returned to the Commandant of the South West Security Network, otherwise known as Operation Amotekun at the Reuben Fasoranti Gardens, Alagbaka, Akure. According to him, “all those in the category of illegal arms and ammunition bearers are to take advantage of this window of grace to turn in these deadly weapons as security agencies shall take necessary steps against defiance after the seven days period.” In a statement signed by the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Donald Ojogo, the governor disclosed that, “those who find it difficult to physically present such arms and ammunition for obvious reasons are advised to call 08079999989 for further advice and instructions on appropriate steps to be taken.” Meanwhile, Governor Akeredolu has expressed concern over what he described, as low level of policing in Ondo State. He said: “The general observation across the state shows a very low level of policing, which is risky to society. Of note, policing is key and can only thrive on a note of mutual trust and respect. We can all, only strive for a better society and brace up to take maximum advantage of lessons learnt from the unfortunate incidents of the last two weeks. “Saddening as the events appear, there is no doubt that a fresh orientation, perception of self-appraisal as well as an encouraging mood of sober reflection pervades the nation.” Governor Akeredolu, therefore, advised the police authorities to take up their responsibilities as an institution and take charge of the public space for the good of all. 