Paul Osuyi, Asaba Delta State Government has approved a draft estimate of N378 billion as budget for the 2021 fiscal year. This comprises of N174 billion recurrent expenditure and N203 billion capital expenditure. The approval was one of the outcome of the State Executive Council meeting presided over by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. Addressing Government House reporters in Asaba, Commissioner for Information, Charles Aniagwu, said the 2021 draft budget would be presented to the state House of Assembly next week for consideration. Aniagwu said the estimate for capital expenditure would be channelled into critical infrastructure, emphasising that the budget would be used mainly to advance the ‘Stronger Delta Vision’ of the State Government. ‘The first very important decision that was reached at today’s exco is the approval of the draft estimate of 2021 budget of the state. A budget of N372 billion was presented by the Ministry of Economic Planning for consideration at Exco. ‘After some adjustments here and there and the need for us to also tackle certain critical infrastructure in the state, the budget was taken up to N378 billion. So, that is what is going to be presented to the state House of Assembly,’ he said. Aniagwu expressed optimism that by the beginning of 2021, the appropriation bill would have be signed into law, and becomes operational. He disclosed that approval was also given for the concessioning of the Asaba Airport for 30 years, adding that the airport would be developed to meet world class standard. According to him, Exco also mandated the state boundary committee to take proactive steps towards addressing inter community and inter state boundary disputes with a view to promoting peace and economic harmony between Delta and Edo states. Mr Aniagwu added that Exco gave approval for the appointment of Ovie Whiskey as the Ovie of Ijerhe Kingdom in Ethiope West Local Government Area of the state and Johnson Ologho as the Odion of Emevor in Isoko North Local Government Area of the State. The Information Commissioner used the forum to debunk the rumour and reports that the total reconstruction of the pathological building and the upgrade of the clinical facilities of the Delta State University Teaching Hospital (DELSUTH), Oghara, was being handled by a relative of the Governor at a whooping amount of money. He disclosed that the two projects were being handled by two reputable firms to enable the hospital be at par with the ones in developed societies. 