The Eze Ndigbo Etiosa , Lagos State, Eze Gerald Onuchukwu (Gerico) has appealed to Nigerian  youths over the #EndSARS  protest which is gradually being hijacked  by hoodlums  across  the nation. In a statement, the Eze comisirated with some of the youths who died in the course  of the protest and prayed that God in His infinite  mercy grant their souls eternal rest. While commending Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu for standing with the youths and personally taking their request to President Muhammadu  Buhari in order to find solutions to the five point demands by the youths, Onuchukwu urges him to ensure that the demands are implemented  to the letter. While appealing to the youths to end the protest, and give government at all level time to meet their demands, the Eze said hoodlums and miscreants are gradually hijacking the peacefull protests. While also reacting to insinuations in some quarters that the arson and vandalism being carried out by miscreants  are organised by a particular  ethnic group, Onuchukwu described  such statements as handiwork of mischief makers who are bent on lighting fire  of ethnic war. In his words the Eze said. “Destruction of property was also carried out in various  parts pf the country including south East  states where  curfew has also been declared.  Are we going to blame this on any tribe or etnic groups living in such area?”. On steps already taken by some governors to set up Panel of Judicial  enquiry into activities of SARS  in their state, Onuchukwu commended  them and appeals to other governors  who are yet to take this step to follow suit. Going down memory lane, Onuchukwu recalled that relationship  between  Igbo, Hausa, Yoruba  and other ethnic  groups dated back to centuries ago. He said since then till date, the Igbo, Hausa, yoruba and other ethnic nationalties have  continued to live side by side  as exemplified  by relationships between Zik, Pa Awo Takar, Aminu Kano, Tafawa Balewa and other politicians in the first  Republic. ” I hearby call on everyone to  promote peace and love in Lagos and Nigeria as a whole” While also commending  Vice President Yemi Osinbajo for earlier humbly admitting  that the nation  has failed the youths  and also showing empathy to the injured and the dead, Onuchukwu appealed to the Federal Government  to implement the demands of the youths as captured in Mr Presidents speech adding that this measure would help restore permanent  peace in the country.   