Benjamin Babine, Abuja The Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, (MWUN), have on Wednesday lamented the sack of over 600 workers by Intels Services Nigeria Limited, and have given the company a 7-day ultimatum to recall the affected workers or face total shut down of its operations nationwide. MWUN who disclosed this in a letter addressed to the Managing Director of the company, which was made available to journalists on Wednesday, also said that the company had recently declared 30 workers redundant. In the letter, the Secretary General of MWUN, Comrade Felix Akingboye, said: “Over the years the welfare benefits of your employees (Intels Nig. Ltd.) and that of your subsidiary Company, AMS, has always been the product of joint negotiation between your Management and the Union.  In other words, the employees of the Principal (Intels Nigeria Ltd) and its subsidiary AMS enjoy the same welfare benefits. “Recently, your management declared about 30 of its employees redundant and the Union was duly consulted, and a joint communiqué between management and the union was issued after due negotiation. Regrettably however, we are informed that your management has terminated its contract with AMS which has led to over 600 workers (who are our members) being declared redundant without due recourse to the Union for the negotiation of their terminal benefits. “Letters of termination/redundancy, we are informed, had already been served on the workers.  This unfair labour practice is not acceptable to us. I have been directed to issue your management with a seven day notice effective from the date of this ultimatum, within which to withdrawal all the letters of termination/redundancy served on the workers and recall them to duty, otherwise, we shall be compelled to withdraw our services from your terminal at the expiration of the notice.” The union added, “we demand that status quo ante should remain pending when a management/Union meeting is convened to negotiate their exit and payment of terminal benefits.” 