Geoffrey Anyanwu, ANDJude Chinedu, Enugu Igbo Youths and the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) yesterday demanded that the South East geopolitical zone be given the opportunity to produce the president of Nigeria in 2023. Arising from a meeting with the South East Governors, National Assembly members, Ministers, South East Clergy, leadership of Traditional Rulers, Igbo leaders and women leaders yesterday at the Government House, Enugu, they also demanded for the disarming of killer herdsmen with AK 47 rifles in the zone. In a communiqué issued at the end of the meeting and signed by the youth leaders and MASSOB leader, Comrade Uchenna Madu, they demanded for creation of one state in the South East for the region to be at par with others.The communiqué reads in parts, “The South East should be given the opportunity to be president of Nigeria in 2023. Disarming of killer herdsmen with AK 47 in the South East , who have  occupied our forest and farmlands, destroying, kidnapping, and killing our women while we pledge to live and work peacefully with our brothers and sisters and herdsmen, who have been living peacefully with us. “Creation of one more State in the South East to balance the equation with other regions. The South East Governors to determine locations, where road blocks are necessary in the South East, especially in emergency situations with a view to addressing the complains of our people about many road blocks and extortions in the South East.” The communiqué further reads that, “There’s serious discrimination and marginalisation of South East federal civil servants. We want the Federal Government to look into this. Each state must set up youth rehabilitation and empowerment fund to address youth unemployment in the South East. “South East should set up monitoring committee in each state made up of youths, Igbo leaders, traditional rulers, clergymen and Governors representatives and women to monitor compensation and empowerment fund in the South to be set up by Governors and the Federal Government. “The Igbo youths and MASSOB note with sadness, that Igbo land is being discriminated against in the allocation of federal infrastructural projects. We note specifically, that all the federal roads in Igbo land are in a terrible State of disrepair. We therefore demand that the federal government should immediately approve a substantial intervention fund to complete these road projects. “We also demand that substantial allocation be made for major infrastructural projects in the 2021 budget currently before the NASS. “That the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo should lead a delegation of South East youth representatives and selected Igbo leaders to the presidency, to make their demand known to Mr President.” 