 By Job Osazuwa
An early morning gas station explosion in Baruwa community in the densely populated Ipaja area of Lagos has left at least eight persons dead.  Emergency responders who confirmed this to Daily Sun at the scene said three persons were rescued alive.
Many buildings, vehicles, tricycles and shops were severely affected. It was gathered that the explosion occurred around 5.44am at Best Roof Gas Station located at Unity Bus Stop, Fatade area of Baruwa in Alimoso Local Government Area (LGA) of the state.
Also torched by the inferno were 25 houses, mostly bungalows, 16 lock up shps and a primary school.
This is coming after gas explosions, had months ago, claimed lives and destroyed property in Ajao Estate and Abule-Ado areas of the state.
Barely three weeks ago, another gas station fire occurred in Iju/Ajuwon, a border community between Lagos and Ogun. A resident of the area, said yesterday’s explosion started around 5.44am. He said there was apparent fear in the densely populated area, especially as the residents could not quickly understand what was amiss. The resident said a thick smoke engulfed the whole area, adding that emergency responders have arrived the scene and the men of fire service are battling to put out the raging fire. While the fire rages uncontrollably, the officials of the Lagos State Emergency Maintenance Agency (LASEMA), different security personnel and first aid administrators have arrived the scene. The Director General of LASEMA, Olufemi Damilola Oke-Osanyintolu, who confirmed the incident, has said that the agency quickly activated its emergency response plan and stormed the scene. Also giving an update of the disaster, the Acting Coordinator, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Lagos Territorial Office, Mr. Ibrahim Farinloye, said that the explosion occurred at Candos Road, Baruwa.
He said: “LPG tanker was in the process of discharging at the Best Roof Plant Station and the Station Generator was on and from where it was reported that explosion erupted.
“The explosion threw the discharging tanker across the road.
There are casualties, five bodies have been recovered but search and recovery will be carried out after the emergency phase.
“Many buildings have been destroyed
The Best Roof Gas Plant Station is located in densely populated community.”    