All they want is to be heard All they want is for us to listen All they want is to show us their visible and invisible scars All they want is to drive nice cars if they can afford them Wear nice clothes if they can buy them Carry a laptop if they have one All they want is to live free from fear To live in dignity and with respect All they want is for their taxes and those of their parents Not to be used to fund their oppressors All they want is an end to tyranny All they want is for us to hear the cries of the dispossessed The hopeless, the helpless, the excluded, the silenced We speak up as mothers All we want is to see our children grow And carry their children in our arms And when our time comes, for them to bury us like the Queens we are Almighty God, we speak up to you Protect our children from the bullets of the wicked Keep them safe from harm As mothers we speak out at the top of our voices With the wombs with which we bore them And the breasts with which we suckled them We declare, we warn and we tell you These children will not die! These children will live! These children will rule! These children will fulfill their destinies! These children will not be cut down! For those who burn, loot, rape, maim and kill For those who incite others to chaos, plunder and anarchy We speak up to you now, listen! Your war is not the war our children fight Our children fight for justice They fight to be heard They fight for truth They fight for freedom Our children know no tribe Our children have only one religion – A better nation Our children will not become pawns Mindless tools in the hands of tyrants and megalomaniacs Judgement shall be upon you Their blood will be on your hands and on your heads Your war is not their war For those who put our children in harm’s way And encourage those who burn, loot, rape, maim and kill Judgement shall be yours one day Let us all Speak Up and Speak Out!!! Silence is no longer an option.  •Bisi Adeleye-Fayemi is a gender specialist, social entrepreneur and writer. She is the founder of Abovewhispers.com, an online community for women. She is the First Lady of Ekiti State and can be reached at BAF@abovewhispers.com 