Laide Raheem,. Abeokuta A global art competition winner, 15-year-old Mariam Omolara Kaka, has given scholarship and bursary awards to 21 indigent students drawn from two secondary schools in Ijebu North Local Government Area of Ogun State. She also donated a sum of N25,000 to her Creative Art teacher. Miss Kaka, a student of the Olabisi Onabanjo University International School, Ago-Iwoye, had in February, 2020, emerged winner in an international art competition entitled “Fight for Freedom”, organised by a charity group, Never Such Innocence, with her art work entry, “Nostalgic Salutation to Fallen Heroes.” Following her excellent performance in the competition with over 4,000 participants from 44 countries, the art prodigy received cash rewards from some Nigerians, most of whom are alumni of Molusi College, Ijebu-Igbo. Awarding a sum N100,000 scholarship to Miss Olubanjo Esther, an SS 3 Science student of OOUIS, Ago-Iwoye and donating N25, 000 to her Creative Art teacher, Salisu Olatunde, on Tuesday, Mariam disclosed her readiness to begin award of N10,000 to the best student in Creative Art both at her school and Molusi College in Ijebu Igbo, annually. Speaking further, Mariam, a daughter of a former Deputy Governor in Ogun State, Senator Adegbenga Kaka, explained that she decided to award a scholarship to her school mate and give bursary of N5,000 each to twenty studensts at Molusi College, to encourage fellow students to participate in competitions that will give them platform to showcase their God-given talents. ‘There’s no limit to where we can get to but we must make efforts to make our talents known to the world so that we can be celebrated. I must sincerely appreciate the effort of my parents for helping me to bring out the best in me and for encouraging me to do better. Also, my Creative Art teacher, who helped in sharpening my skill, I want to say a very big thank you,’ she stated. In his remark at the event, Mariam’s father, Senator Kaka, said: ‘After Mariam got cash donations from some well-meaning people, most of whom are alumni of Molusi College, I called and asked her what she would love to do with the money and Mariam said there were some students in her school whose parents usually find it difficult to pay their school fees and she would like to render financial support. ‘I advised her not to limit the donation to only her school, but also to the College, which is also my alma mater and more so, most of the cash donors are alumni of the school,’ the former Deputy Governor stated. 