Felix Ikem, NsukkaIn keeping solidarity with the Nigeria Independence day celebration, Hon. Solomon Izuchukwu Onah, the Udenu Local Government Chairman, October yesterday led his cabinet to the Nigeria Correctional Centre Nsukka and some Hospitals to mark Nigeria sixtieth  Independence celebration. According to the Council Area Chairman, the exercise is a part of the activities designed to commemorate the Nigeria at 60th Independence celebration. Hon. Onah added that “a day like this should be a matter of collective concern to reach out to our brothers and sisters who are in one distress or another.”Saturday Sun gathered that the exercise started with a visitation to Saint Bridget Memorial Hospital Obollo-Afor, where the Medical Director,  Dr Ifeanyi Ohabuenyi, led the Chairman and his cabinet to the Ward rooms. At the end of the ward tour, the Chairman, in his magnanimity paid bills for seven patients who could not afford their hospital bills.The same exercise was repeated in Nwaossia Foundation Hospital Orba where another eleven persons benefitted.Our reporter gathered that the Council chairman and his Cabinet moved down to the Nigeria Correctional Centre Nsukka, where he spent the rest of the day celebrating Nigeria Independence Day with the inmates.While addressing the gathering, the Udenu local boss who topped the event by making provisions for of food items to the inmates thanked God for the gift of the nation and Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for his selfless governance in Enugu State. Mr  Ezima Christopher, the  Deputy Controller of Nigeria Correctional Centre Nsukka, in his thank you note, poured out his heart felt gratitude to the Udenu Chairman, describing the visit as the most sensitive one.   According to him, “this is unprecedented, we have not had top Government official coming around to show this level of love to our inmates . We are immensely grateful to you sir for choosing to celebrate Nigeria Independence Day with us ” He equally prayed fervently for God to grant the Council boss more wisdom  and prosperous political career.Similarly,  Hon. Cosmas Ugwueze, the Executive Chairman of Nsukka Local Government Area of Enugu State yesterday celebrated Nigeria 60th independent anniversary in a grand style by visiting Hospitals, stroke healing centers, Flood Ravaged areas among other places.The chairman who was accompanied by his wife Hon. Mrs Oluchukwu Ugwueze, the council Vice Chairman, Hon  Walter Ozioko among others said that their would be no better way to celebrate Nigeria independent than to reach out to the sick ones, the downtrodden and the last one poor.At Bishop shanahan Hospital, Nsukka and  Faith Foundation Hospital, Nsukka were over 30 patient in admision with the hospitals received cash gifts from the chairman to help them foot their hospital bills, one of the patient Mr Anthony Ugwu described the chairman gesture and cash gifts as “unexpected and manner from heaven.”At the Eluoli Amadim Ogbozara Opi Stroke Healing Centers, the chairman met Hon. Festus Ozioko former Councilor of Ihe Ward, who was down with Stroke for nearly two years who could not hold back his tears at the sight of the Hon. Ugwueze.Ozioko and many others stroke patients were also gifted with cash.Saturday Sun gathered that Hon Ozioko was councilor the same time with Hon. Ugwueze in Nsukka LG Council.The climax of the day, however, came when the chairman and his entourage arrived Ikwoka Obimo community, a community bedevilled with flood where presented assorted food items to them and assured them the both state and local government will look into the flood menace in the area with the view of finding lasting solution to it. 