It’s a common belief —rightly or wrongly— in this part of the world that riches and wealth intoxicate. This is commonly found among the children of the affluent. Some tend to be braggadocios, garrulous and arrogant. But the honest truth is that, there are a quite smaller percentage of them with a large heart and humble to a fault. One of such is Princess Mojisola Tejuoso, the eldest daughter of Lagos billionaire industrialist, Chief Rasaq Okoya. Being a mix of two very illustrious Yoruba families must surely make anyone feel a little extraordinary. Very unlike some of her peers and fellow rich kids, Moji —also happily married to Senator Lanre Tejuoso, the scion of the Tejuoso dynasty— was never ‘money miss road’ because of her love for the downtrodden and perhaps, the street. Aside being an epitome of humility, Moji is a philanthropist par excellence. And all these virtues actually came to bear last Sunday October 25, when she clocked 55 and many celebrated her, albeit, quietly. Spotlight gathered that given the mood of the nation vis-a-vis the COVID-19 pandemic and the unfortunate unrest across the country, Moji could not celebrate in style as there was no formal bash to mark the day but a zoom get-together with select family members and friends. During the virtual gig, the entire ambiance was harmonious and happy for the amiable lady. Though she runs one of the poshest restaurants in the Ogun State capital, the gentle and now party-shy first daughter of the fabulously wealthy Aare of Lagos lives a more sedate life. Moji revels in the company of her immediate family —Lanre, her husband and their five children. She is unequivocal about her opinion of people who regard women who choose to stay at home to raise their children with disdain and is glad that she spent quite a lot of time raising her own five. Her utter pride and sense of accomplishment is palpable when she talks about her children. Such was the milieu in which she seemed happiest. At 55, Moji, the CEO, Royal Mandarin Restaurant and Mayfair Club, Abeokuta, is already a grandmother. Moji and her hubby were so young when they decided to get married. Nostalgically, many would remember their nuptials in 1987 as one of the most celebrated weddings in Nigerian media history, being preceded by a blitz the size and extent of which had never been seen before then. It would become, in fact, the flagship of celebrity weddings. The last time Lanre and Moji had a blowout was when they had the city of Lagos bursting at the seams, literally, on Sunday, October 25, 2015 when Moji celebrated her 50th birthday. The grand party was put together by her husband, Lanre, then a distinguished member of the Senate, and an established medical doctor, who was among those who pioneered the Silverspoon Kids clique within the society. But things have been at a slow pace now for the couple who have become grannies multiple times. 