There is no gain saying that top politician and socialite, Senator Florence Ita-Giwa is overly bold and admirable. When the news of her courageous move to plead with the mob of youths baying to deal with the politicians in her home state, Cross River, hit the town last Saturday October 24, not many were in doubt she would succeed. She has done it in the past and achieved results. That was at the height of the militancy in the Niger Delta. Of course, this time around, the woman, a reputable figure both in the political and social milieu, had to go on her knees to beg the protesters: and it worked. For the effervescent Senator Florence, she has grace and charm. And for several years, she has deployed the latter more. Spotlight gathered that most Cross River’s aristocrats were so scared stiff and unwilling to approach nor plead with the raging youths. However, the former Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly, fondly called Mma Bakassi decided to bell the cat and fully prepared for the consequences. She begged and admitted that they, the leaders, have failed the youths. According to her, the vandalization and havoc have affected not only the rich but the poor and middle class in the society as both little businesses and jobs have been affected. Sources told Spotlight that prior to the looting and burning of properties of some notable politicians in the state including Senators Victor Ndoma-Egba and Gershom Bassey, Mma Bakassi had equally expressed concerns on the dangerous dimension the #EndSARS protests were heading to. She had resolved to plead with the youths not to continue venting their anger by destroying properties. It was a typically impulsive but good-natured gesture by the influential, party-loving politician who has been in Calabar since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in March. She was said to have prepared that in case the youths refused, she only needed to take a few things that’s more important to her and leave her properties for them to do whatever they like with them. But reasons prevailed. Her charm and pleas worked as the angry youths —who had shunned the earlier 24-hour curfew imposed by the state governor, Ben Ayade— listened to her and retreated. 