In commemoration of this year’s annual Chivita World Juice Day celebration, Chivita is leading the rallying cry for everyday wellness. In the events that have filled this year, health experts and nutritionist are so focused on how everyone ought to pay close attention to their health and their nutrition and get the right vitamins and minerals to ensure an effective immune system. Health-focused brands such as Chivita have been front and centre in these times with its pure fruit juice offerings that are rich in Vitamins and Minerals. A recently published World Health Organization (WHO) report emphasises that “Adequate fruit and vegetable intake are required to help reduce nutritional deficiencies and increase resistance to infectious disease”. Further research has shown that consumers who take a glass of fruit juice a day enjoy essential benefits such as an effective immune system, improved skin care, lower blood pressure, improved eye function, as fruit juices contain antioxidants which supply the body with much-needed vitamins. According to the Compass 2019 report, Nigeria is one of the countries with the lowest per capital fruit juice consumption in the world, consuming 2 litres per year as compared to 8 litres average for Africa and 20 litres average globally. This is a cause for concern because fruit juice consumption is one of the affordable ways of accessing the right doses of nutrients and minerals necessary for building stronger immunity. It is in view of this all-important benefit of fruit juice consumption to health that Chivita celebrates the second edition of its Chivita World Juice Day – a follow up to the maiden edition that was launched last year. Celebrated on the October 17 every year, the aim of this event is to foster a juice drinking culture among Nigerians with a view to adopting healthier lifestyles, thereby building a healthy nation. The theme for this year’s event is Fruit Juice: The Smart Secret of Boosting Your Immunity. This theme has become more pertinent especially now when hygiene and a strong immune system is key to keeping healthy. This year’s Chivita World Juice Day is designed as a virtual event and will feature health experts and nutritionists as they provide insights and share their perspectives on how fruit juice consumption can help us strengthen our body from within. The event is opened to the public, who can participate through the brand’s multiple Social Media platforms. 