Gyang Bere, Jos The All Progressives Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State are canvassing for votes ahead of the Plateau South Senatorial by-election. The major political parties, who filled in candidates ahead of the October 31 by-election, flagged-off their campaigns on Tuesday in Langtang North and South, and Quanpan and Shendam Local Government Areas, respectively. APC State Chairman Hon Latep Dabang, accompanied by the APC candidate, Prof Nora Daduut, at town hall meetings in Langtang North and South, said the party has put all mechanisms in place to receive decampees from the PDP and other political parties next week. Hon Dabang said the party has a marketable product for the senatorial race and expressed strong optimism that the APC would coast to victory come October 31. ‘Mama Nora Dadu’ut is a confirmed registered member of the APC. You know that the membership registration of our party rest with Ward Chairmen. So, 153 is the registration number of Mama at Kwalla-Moeda Federal Ward. She did not come into APC because of this aspiration, she has been with the APC long before now,’ the party Chairman said. ‘I have received series of request from PDP members who want to decamp to APC. By next week, we are going to received decampees. Langtang South are always democrates, and will not desapoint us.’ The Director General of the Nora Dadu’ut Campaign Organization, Sen Victor Lar, charged the people of Tarok land to key into the vision of the APC, saying better days are coming. ‘It is high time that Trarok people should key into the vision of the APC. I have confidence in the candidature of Prof Nora Dadu’ut. She is the first female senatorial candidate in the history of Plateau politics and I am optimiatic that she wilk bringing development to the zone.’ Meanwhile, Plateau State PDP Chairman Hon Christ Hassan also took the PDP candidate, Rt Hon Gorge Daika to Wase and Quan-Pan Local Government Area, the home town of the APC candidate, to canvass for support. He said a lot of APC supporters have also indicated interest on defecting to the PDP ahead of the senatorial by-election, and expressed hope that the PDP will win the poll. 