Some elders in Osun state have condemned the wanton destruction and looting of government and private property across the State by hoodlums under the guise of EndSARS protest. They however extolled the leadership quality displayed by Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, in managing the incidents in the State, including the attack on him by hoodlums. The elders, led by a former governor of the State and pioneer Interim National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Abdul-Kareem Adebisi Akande, who were on a solidarity visit to the governor, at the Government House, Osogbo, described the attack as unfortunate, unwarranted and alien to the Omoluabi ethos for which the State was known. The former governor warned the miscreants and those who participated in the breakdown of law and order across the State to refrain from such acts. Other elders on the solidarity visit include former Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole; former Chief of Army Staff and Defence Staff, Gen. Alani Akinrinade and seasoned educationist, Prof. Olu Aina. Speaking further, Akande acknowledged the governor for systematically addressing the demands of the protesters in spite of the mayhem unleashed on him and his entourage. He said “We sympathise with the governor over the attack on him by hoodlums who evidently hijacked the protests in Osogbo. The attack was unfortunate, unwarranted and alien to the Omoluabi ethos for which we are known. “We recognise and identify with the merit of the agitation by our youths, which initially was over acts of brutality by some officers and men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) which grew into a wider clarion call for general reforms. “We support the clamour for a total end to acts of brutality from whichever source. We sympathise with those who have lost loved ones and those who have been injured during this struggle. “The wanton destruction and looting of government and private properties across the state by hoodlums is highly condemnable. Attacks on security personnel are counterproductive and only seek to erode recent gains.” In his remarks, Governor Oyetola, appreciated the eminent citizens on their solidarity visit, describing it as an encouragement for him to be more dedicated, committed and determined to do things that will continue to bring genuine development to the people and the State. 