Jude Chinedu, Enugu Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) and South East stakeholders have agreed to push for Igbo presidency in 2023. The leaders made up of Governors, Ohanaeze Ndigbo and other political, religious and traditional leaders met with MASSOB delegates and select representatives of other Igbo youth groups on Friday in continuation of Thursdays expanded South East stakeholders’ meeting. In a communique presented by the leader of MASSOB, Uchenna Madu, and adopted by the Igbo leaders, the group demanded that South East should be given the opportunity to be president of Nigeria in 2023. Other demands in the Communique include, “Disarming of killer herdsmen with AK 47 in the South East , who have occupied our forest and farmlands, destroying, kidnapping, and killing our women and creation of one more state in the South East to balance the equation with other regions. The group also demanded that South East Governors should determine locations, where road blocks are necessary in the South East, especially in emergency situations with a view to addressing the complains residents about many road blocks and extortions in the zone. Also demanded by MASSOB include that: “Each state must set up youth Rehabilitation and empowerment fund to address youth unemployment in the South East. “South East should set up monitoring committee in each state made up of youths, igbo leaders, traditional rulers, clergymen and Governors representatives and women to monitor compensation and empowerment fund in the South to be set up by Governors and the FG. “The Igbo youths and MASSOB notes with sadness, that Igbo land is being discriminated against in the allocation of Federal infrastructural projects. We note specifically, that all the Federal roads in Igbo land are in a terrible State of disrepair. We therefore demand that the FG should immediately approve a substantial intervention fund to complete these road projects. “We also demand that substantial allocation be made for major infrastructural projects in the 2021 budget currently before the NASS. “That the president General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo should lead a delegation of South East youth representatives and selected Igbo leaders to the presidency, to make their demand known to Mr President. 