By Merit Ibe Director General, Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Mallam Farouk Salim, has affirmed that the organisation as a representative of the international standardisation bodies in Nigeria would continue to propagate the global standards through adoption and modification for local use.
Salim called on all Nigerians to join the quality vanguard and continue to support SON in its quest to improve the lives of Nigerians through standards and quality assurance activities as well as protecting the environment for sustainability.
This according to him can be achieved through reduction in throwaway, reuse and recycle, and landfill of spaces as well as spreading information on the importance and value of our natural resources.
Advocating protection of the planet with standards, the SON’s helmsman made these remarks as the nation celebrates world standards day 2020.
He noted that the focus of this year’s World Standards Day being coordinated by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), International Organisation for Standardization (ISO) and the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) is “Protecting the Planet with Standards.”
Positing that rapid population growth and broad urbanisation call for the responsible use of limited resources, Salim stated that standards cover all aspects of energy savings, water and air quality, while laying down standardised protocols and methods of measurement.
“Their broad use helps reduce the environmental impact of industrial production and processes, facilitates the reuse of limited resources and improves energy efficiency.”
International Standards prepared by IEC, ISO and ITU take into account tried and true solutions to technical challenges as well as help share expertise and expert know-how broadly, within developed and developing countries alike, he said.
Other conservation ideas proposed by the SON Chief Executive include volunteering for clean ups in communities, more efficient use of water to avoid waste, use of energy efficient appliances, planting of trees to provide food and oxygen as well as use of non-toxic chemicals at homes and in offices.
“Experts in international standardisation around the world have advocated substantial reduction in human impact and protection of the planet, seeking political will, concrete action and the right tools among which are international standards.
“This advocacy is predicated on the human and large scale industrial activities which modern civilization has added to earth’s natural greenhouse gases which negatively impact our climate and with it, all forms of life. 