 Nigeria born American singer song writer Donblaqwifi who is very known for is outspoken vibe and great musical compositions says this deadly virus ravaging the world can fought and given more awesomeness if artists around the world can team and project more awareness campaign on how to fight this epidemic. Nigerian artiste would mostly team up for a political campaign song for top politicians based on motives , interest and gains: Bur for a deadly can-can worm like this , I really don’t see the energy and cohesion yet. The closest have seen so far is falz the bad guy and don jazzy teaming in a song to educate people about hope and strength during this trying times which is highly needed. Donblaqwifi who’s real name is Sunday agbede rose to prominence in 2016 after releasing the lead single “ Ara” From is debut studio project. This amiable young man graduated from northeastern University in the United States with an accounting degree. Donblaqwifi has shared the same stage with the likes of 9ice, mayorkun, Davido, 2face, Teni to say the least. Known for his energetic and engaging performance this crowd controller would never leave the stage with a sour taste leaving you in the state of always asking for more. Donblaqwifi also as foundation page on IG to help doing the pandemic which is a great move for an independent artiste to do. As artiste we need to do more and play our role in the society as role models knowing fully well that we have people following and watching every step we take.IG: iamdonblaqwifi, YouTube: Donblaqwifi. Twitter: iamdonblaqwifiNigeria born American singer song writer Donblaqwifi who is very known for is outspoken vibe and great musical compositions says this deadly virus ravaging the world can fought and given more awesomeness if artists around the world can team and project more awareness campaign on how to fight this epidemic. Nigerian artiste would mostly team up for a political campaign song for top politicians based on motives , interest and gains: Bur for a deadly can-can worm like this , I really don’t see the energy and cohesion yet. The closest have seen so far is falz the bad guy and Donjazzy teaming in a song to educate people about hope and strength during this trying times which is highly needed. Donblaqwifi who’s real name is Sunday agbede rose to prominence in 2016 after releasing the lead single “ Ara” From is debut studio project. This amiable young man graduated from northeastern University in the United States with an accounting degree. Donblaqwifi has shared the same stage with the likes of 9ice, mayorkun, Davido, 2face, Teni to say the least. Known for his energetic and engaging performance this crowd controller would never leave the stage with a sour taste leaving you in the state of always asking for more. Donblaqwifi also as foundation page on IG to help doing the pandemic which is a great move for an independent artiste to do. As artiste we need to do more and play our role in the society as role models knowing fully well that we have people following and watching every step we take.IG: iamdonblaqwifi, YouTube: Donblaqwifi. Twitter: iamdonblaqwifi 