Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Kalu, has commended Nigerians for their steadfastness, resilience, selflessness and patriotism in the pursuit of Nigeria’s unity. According to Kalu, the strength of Nigeria lies in her cultural, ethnic and religious diversity. He faulted perpetrators of secession agenda among ethnic groups, stressing that Nigeria would  not break up, but continue to wax strong as a united and prosperous nation. While calling on leaders at all levels to adopt an inclusive and  participatory approach of governance, Kalu called on Nigerians to shun violence and other social vices, adding that development cannot thrive in an atmosphere of discord and conflict. In a goodwill message in commemoration of Nigeria’s 60th independence anniversary, the former governor stressed that against all odds, Nigeria remains a united entity with a bright future. Said Kalu:  “ As we mark Nigeria’s diamond jubilee, it is imperative for Nigerians, regardless of colour, tribe, religion and political affiliation, as individuals and as a people to reflect on the past in a bid to forge ahead. “Nigeria’s independence was granted in 1960 with the support of Nigeria’s founding fathers Sir Ahmadu Bello, Chief Nnamdi Azikwe,  Chief Obafemi Awolowo and others. The ideals and exemplary leadership qualities of these founding fathers must be embraced by leaders at all levels to achieve greatness in the land. “Nigeria’s strength lies in her ethnic, cultural and religious diversity. A nation with over 200 million people and over 250 ethnic groups, Nigeria is blessed and as such, Nigerians must remain resilient, steadfast and united for us to achieve the desired greatness. “No doubt, as a heterogeneous nation, there will always be challenges.  We must shun divisive tendencies by promoting the common goal of building a prosperous nation. Both the governed and the government have shared responsibility of promoting credible leadership and good governance. “Nigeria as a nation deserves the best in view of the vast human and material resources at her disposal. Government cannot do it alone without the support of the teeming populace. By adhering strictly to the tenets of democracy, the people will have the opportunity to elect credible and responsive  leaders. “The Federal Government , international community, media, civil society organisations and other stakeholders deserve commendation for their robust efforts in promoting credible elections in Nigeria” Kalu who promised to sustain his good works in business and politics for the sake of the people, emphasised that leadership positions should be seen as a clarion call to serve the people, noting that transparency must be sustained in the electoral process for Nigeria to attain its full potentials. 