Romanus Ugwu, Abuja A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Osita Okechukwu, has warned Concerned APC members that issued 14-day ultimatum, to stop distracting the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee from focusing on the responsibility ahead of them. Reacting to the 14 days Ultimatum issued by Concerned members of the APC that Caretaker Committee to roll out a plan for December 2020 national convention, Osita Okechukwu said that reconciliation is more germane now than the convention. The Director-General Voice of Nigeria (VON) pleaded that every party member should support the Caretaker Committee to diligently fix and reposition the party before any convention. He specifically argued that even if it takes six months to one year to complete the reforms in the party to achieve substantial cohesion before the crucial 2023 general elections, members of the party should not mind. “Am not the spokesman of our great party, am just an ordinary foundation-slip-card carrying member of APC from Eke Ward in Enugu State. However, am in league with the spokesman of our great party, Yekini Nabena that this is not the time for ultimatum. “It is first reconciliation and subsequently election convention. Our great Zik in similar scenario admonished that we first prepare the ground well before we lay the mat.” “I personally can’t factor the true reason behind Abdullahi Dauda’s concerned APC members preference for a December, 2020 National Convention to genuine reconciliation of gravely fractured party before convention?” “Truly, methinks we should all support the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee to diligently fix and reposition our great party before any convention.” Asked about the time limit he proposed, Okechukwu said: “A cursory glance at the damage done to the soul of our great party, beginning from our victory in 2015; to regrettably the culture of impunity which bedeviled our 2018 primaries to say the least is unprecedented. “Accordingly, the MMB’s Committee requires deep introspection to gather the pieces, reconcile the various warlords and tendencies. If it takes six or twelve months, one may not mind so as to achieve substantial cohesion before the crucial 2023 general elections. “Reminded that the Concerned APC members are of the opinion that it will be counterproductive to extend the tenure of the MMB’s Committee, but please help me ask them, what is the main terms of reference of the MMB’s Committee? For me the main one, is reconciliation! reconciliation! reconciliation! Reconciliation is the main ingredient in forging a united front in line with our symbol, the broom. “Without which the second terms of reference, which is the national convention will definitely produce a factional national chairman, who in turn will produce a keg-leg presidential candidate. Lets avoid such sordid scenario, as much as possible.” “Thirdly, it is important that they conclude biometric party registration. What we have today is slip-card and no one can in a finger tip, tell us our numbers. By the time they conclude biometric registration, we will know our exact number and exact demographic membership. This will help in 2023 general elections.” “If actually they do not want to discredit the conscientious efforts of President Buhari and his team,accordingto them, that took commendable steps to fight for the progress of our great party by setting up the MMB’s Caretaker Committee; then one cannot locate their amazement and disillusionment. “When the Committee has not only commenced reconciliation, but had devoted much efforts towards Edo and Ondo State gubernatorial elections.”
“Maybe they forgot how the Committee mobilised Progressives Governors Forum to embark on trouble shooting across the country, culminating on the historic visit to our national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “A visit meant to allow Governor Godwin Obaseki to run on APC’s platform. If Asiwaju had prevailed on Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, our great party could have been the greatest beneficiary. For them now to blame the MMB’s Committee for our loss is more or less charitable,” he said. 