Lukman Olabiyi, Lagos The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry and Restitution (LSJPIR) has urged the general public to come forward with their various petitions regarding police/security personnel brutality and extra-judicial killings. The panel was recently set up by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to look into the grievances of the victims of Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) related abuses and Lekki Toll Gate incident The chairperson of the panel, Justice Doris Okuwobi (retd ) on Monday disclosed that the panel has so far received 15 petitions from abuse victims. Justice Okuwobi said that the panel is independent of the State Government and would ensure that individuals with valid complaints of human rights violations will receive immediate compensation. ‘If their cases are disposed of in a month or two, compensation, if recommended,  should go to the victims immediately to assuage their pain. ‘We are looking forward to memoranda from those affected by the unfortunate incident of the shooting at the Lekki Toll Gate Plaza by the military. ‘The panel has received not less than 15 petitions relating to the disbanded SARS. ‘We are indeed ready to commence the public sitting. The petitions are here without the petitioners around, the panel will start full proceedings tomorrow (October 27). ‘We are relying on the civil society to assist the panel with credible evidence of the killings at the Lekki Toll Gate Plaza. ‘This is to ensure that there will be good evidence to assist the panel make appropriate recommendations in respect of all terms of reference of the panel,’ she said. Justice Okuwobi said the panel could not begin proceedings immediately because the nominations for the two youth representatives who are to sit as part of the eight-man panel was sent in late. She noted that the two nominated youth representatives had not yet been sworn-in and could not join the panel for Monday’s proceedings. ‘The panel will most definitely sit tomorrow because they would have been sworn-in and the composition will be complete,’ she said. 