Rose Ejembi, Makurdi Some Benue youths on Saturday morning took to the Daudu major road in Guma Local Government Area of the State to protest what they regarded as the mysterious disappearance of the manhood of some men in Daudu community. Daudu community, located along Makurdi-Lafia federal highway, is home to about three Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps housing thousands of refugees. A source from the area who simply identified himself as Terwase disclosed that the aggrieved youths came out to protest alleged cases of penis disappearance which they say has been a recurrent phenomenon in the community in the last few weeks. The protest was said to have caused traffic gridlock on the busy highway for hours. Our source alleged that no fewer than six young men have had their penis disappear mysteriously in the past few weeks, a development which prompted the demonstration. He said the youths had to resort to protest after the traditional ruler in the community did not pay attention to their plight, despite allegations that some young men had lost their penis in mysterious circumstances. ‘The youths said there had been cases of penis disappearance in Daudu in the past few weeks. As at the last count, six persons were said to have had their penis disappear in a mysterious manner,’ the source told Daily Sun. ‘This morning. which is the market day, the youths decided to protest peacefully against the non-challant attitude of the community leader who failed to take action on the alleged penis disappearance. ‘So, the youths in their numbers went to the market to disrupt it making everybody in the market to run for safety. ‘As I am talking to you now, nobody is in the market; it is deserted and police in Daudu had to disperse the protesting youths with teargas.’ When contacted, the acting Traditional ruler of the community, Chief Chado Oliver (acting Tyoor of Daudu), confirmed to reporters by telephone that some youths in his domain have protested against an alleged penis disappearance. ‘It is true that some youths this morning protested around the town,’ he said. ‘They claimed that some of them have had their penis disappeared in mysterious ways. ‘When they came to me, I told them to bring a victim so I can see, but they couldn’t bring anyone. So, this morning, I went to meet another chief to discuss the matter only for me to be called back that youths were protesting. ‘Immediately, I rushed back and met the Divisional Police Officer in Daudu and we both went round to appeal to them. As I talk to you now, normalcy has returned to my domain.’ Contacted for comment, police spokeswoman DSP Catherine Anene, who said she was yet to be briefed on the matter, noted that youths in Daudu were used to such wild rumours. 