Clement Adeyi, Osogbo Oluwo of Iwoland, Oba Abdulrasheed Adewale Akanbi, and the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, have advocated unity in traditional institution and Yoruba progress. The monarchs had a discourse on how to orchestrate the ideal when the Alafin paid Oluwo a courtesy visit at his palace in Iwo, Osun State, at the weekend. Oba Akanbi who lamented disunity in Yoruba traditional Institution, called on the Alaafin to engineer processes of reunification in the traditional institution, inspire Yoruba progress and showcase their rich cultural heritage on the world map. He described Alaafin as a foremost traditional rulers not only in Yorubaland but also in Nigeria. He stressed that his words and actions were needed at this critical time of unity challenge in the traditional institution. The Alaafin expressed disgust that the disunity in the traditional council was motivated by political infiltration into the ranking of the council by politicians of the old Oyo Empire. He assured that he would handle the unity assignment with all his utmost traditional strength. “The Yoruba traditional institution is porous and lack unity and strength to protect and secure Yorubaland. It is disheartening as there is no formidable central council of Obas to issue a statement of appeal and command where necessary, most especially as it relates to the recent destruction that accompanied the recent EndSARS protests in the South Western Nigeria,” the Alaafin said. Speaking further, the Oluwo noted: “Our unity is not only strength but a greenlight to the security, protective and progressive hope of Yorubaland and its generations. I want to appeal to the respected Alaafin of Oyo to use his traditional paraphernalia and stronghold to extend olive branch and unite actors in the council.” “Baba Alaafin, I appreciate your visit, it is a gesture that must be reciprocated. Your worth is unquantifiable. I’m ready to complement your efforts at fashioning a new map for the progress of Yorubaland,” the Oluwo said. In response, the Alaafin remarked: “Iwo is an ancient city with cordial and understandable relationship with Oyo. I’m not new to Iwo. I visit occasionally. Iwo is rich in culture, tradition and religious activities. Ordinarily, Iwo should have been the capital of Osun State following their traditional, political and religious sagacity.” “The bridge of peace in Yourbaland was affected through the infiltration of politicking into the Institution by politicians of the old Oyo Empire. The challenge from every quarter as it equally comes from Oluwo is a challenge to rise to that occassion and do the much needful without retraction,” he added. “I commend Oluwo for his courage, tenacity and zeal in standing tall despite enormous distractions stagemanaged by his few subjects. I had a tougher experience in the first 20 years of my reign. It is what the Yoruba will call “Ojumo kan, ogun kan,” meaning: “One day, one war.” “I’m pleased to visit Oluwo again. I felt at home and gave him words of encouragement in charting a new course of hope for the Yoruba race,” the Alafin said. The Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi (left) and Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi during the visit 