Obinna Odogwu, Awka Governors of the five states in the South East geopolitical zone and other prominent Igbo leaders would be leading a solidarity march on 27th December this year to further push for the aspiration of the zone to produce Nigeria’s president in 2023. This was disclosed at a press briefing presided over by the Chairman of Igbo World Assembly (IWA), Dr Nwachukwu Anakwenze, in Awka, the Anambra State capital. The solidarity march, it was gathered, would hold simultaneously in all the Igbo speaking states particularly in the South East geopolitical zone and would be led by the governors alongside other prominent Igbo leaders. Anakwenze said that time has come for the Igbo to lead the country and contribute their quota to its development. He argued that all the regions have produced presidents except for the South East. He, therefore, appealed to other zones to support the Igbo aspiration. “All the regions of Nigeria have produced presidents and it is now the turn of the South East region to provide good leadership for the good of all Nigerians so as to move Nigeria in a positive direction”, he said. Anakwenze, who is also the Chairman of Ohanaeze Ndiigbo Diaspora Committee, said that the Igbo stand solidly with all Nigerians across the ethnic divides and would always work for a progressive Nigeria. “Most Southerners, Middle Belters and most Nigerians want a restructured Nigeria. This was our goal and is still our goal for a sustainable future Nigerian nation that will last the test of time. “We need a Nigeria where every component part is allowed a measure of autonomy and self determination. “IWA states that the predominant view in Nigeria is for restructuring of the country, and this should be the minimum that Ndigbo should demand, so that every component part of this country can substantially harness its resources and develop at its own pace. “We want to make one of the greatest countries on earth. God has blessed us with everything you can imagine except for good leaders. It is time to correct this. “There is a need to restructure Nigeria to ensure true federalism based on regions or zones. We need a Nigerian political structure that is based on equity, fair play, balance and equal access to political power for the good of all Nigerians”, he said. Attachments area 