Felix Ikem, Nsukka The Agency For Mass Education in Enugu State has initiated and intensified aggressive efforts towards eradicating illiteracy in the the state in line with the target of United States Children’s Fund (UNICEF). The State Director of the agency Mrs Ifeoma Onyia who has commenced advocacy visitations to the relevant stakeholders which includes; the clergy, traditional rulers, town union executives, councillors among others in various communities to engage them in interactive sessions on the best strategies towards eradicating illiteracy in collaboration with the various adult education coordinators in the local government areas of the state. At Nkoplogu and Ivory Adult Literacy Education centers both in Uzo-Uwani local government area of Enugu state, Mrs. Onyia who was represented by Mr Raphael Eze, the Head of Education (HOD) in the LGA and the state chairman of Adult Education Co-ordinators in the state said that the essence of the visit was to request for assist in the campaign against illiteracy. According to him, “illiteracy as we know is a serious problem. We are aware that many men, women, and youths were not opportuned to have acquired formal education due to one reason or the other as such conditions hindered them from effective participation in the affairs of their various communities hence the Federal government decided to collaborate with the states and local governments to fight against illiteracy. “Adult literacy programmes has afforded many people in Enugu state the opportunity through which they obtained their First School Leaving Certificates (FSLC) while others have mainstreamed into formal school system,” he said. Eze further emphasized and harped on the need for improvement in the enrollment population of the adult education learners in the area. He sought for more strategies to sustain the programmes in the 14 approved centres bearing in mind that the aim is to groom people to be literate to eradicate illiteracy. He equally expressed satisfaction with the population of learners at the Uvuru Adult Literacy Education Centre, while he appealed to the other 13 centres in the area to emulate learners from Uvuru promising to establish a secondary school centre if the centre continues to improve. He promised to deliver to them materials once he gets supplies from Enugu. HRH Igwe Daniel. Ogbobe and HRH Igwe Simeon. Idu the traditional ruler of
Uvuru and Nkoplogu communities
spoke on the need for all hands to be on deck for the improvement of the programme in the area. They promised to collaborate with their cabinet members, town union executives,the clergy and others for the success of the programme in their communities.They appreciated the efforts of the local government chairman towards eradicating illiteracy in the area. Agnes Udeji, the Learners leader at Uvuru appreciated the efforts their instructors, the coordinator and the local government chairman towards eradicating illiteracy in the area. She promised maximum cooperation of her colleagues. Mr Peter Ekeowu on behalf of other instructors at Uvuru praised the efforts of the coordinator and the local government chairman for prompt payment of their stipends which had hitherto motivated them to put in their best. Catechist Dominic Ayogu, Chief CBN Dieke (Onowu). Chief Samuel. Ezugwu the President General of town union Nkoplogu community all promised to do their best in spreading the good news as to achieve the goals of the agency in the state. Saturday Sun gathered that the programme has lasted in Uzo-Uwani for over 20 years.  